It was a stupid mistake. The Nausicaan didn't take kindly tolosing. Nor his friends. They were outraged. They wanted a fight. Igave them one. Q I'm under no obligation to tell you that. Lieutenant Worf? Ensign DeSeve, you promised me a freighterwith an important cargo. The only thing here is empty space. Do youhave an explanation? How far must we penetrate to safely allow transporter function? This is a primitive culture. I am here to facilitate itsincorporation. Identify yourself. What the devil? That is an observation I'd expect from Counsellor Troi. Doctor. Doctor, I do respect your opinion, and I'll want you on the Bridge forthe next day or so. The Admiral must remain in the best of health forthese negotiations, and he might require your services. Starbase three four three. We're to take on medical suppliesfor the Alpha Leonis system. No. Doctor Crusher is a Staff Officer, Radue. StarfleetRegulation six point five seven requires that at least two StaffOfficers are present during any treaty or contract negotiations. Good. Now, let's get some sleep. Keep trying. Still, it felt good. At the moment of separation, we willreverse power just enough to get your saucer section out ahead andclear of us. Have we any idea what came through the rupture before we wereable to shut it down? Security team to Jefferies tube J four, deck fifteen. You were the first. The next day Commander Riker fell into asimilar coma. Last night, Doctor Crusher. What happened, Data? The programme has been activated. I think it's reconfiguringthe tricorder. Sensor difficulties have been reported by ships travellingthrough black clusters, but never this extreme. Ensign, set a course for the Kallisko. Mister Riker, prepare anaway team. Captain's log, stardate 45125.7. An away team ledby Commander Riker has conducted a thorough survey of the alien shipKallisko, and has returned to the Enterprise to report. What have you learned? Magnify. That must be Captain Telaka on the left. Let's look athim. Closer. My God. Repeat your last transmission. We have the ability to create the illusion of other places,like the caves on your planet. You have actually spent the last twodays here on this starship, not on Boraal. Professor, I'm afraid I won't be going. The Enterprise isn'tsomething that I can leave and then come back to. If I go, I go forgood. It's not something I'm not prepared to do. If Deanna dies, and he breaks the link with her, then he willchoose someone else, possibly someone from his own delegation. Your help. Well, let's hope they're in a mood to talk. Hailing frequency. Kamala. That's it, exactly. Your Custodian has controlled you socompletely you've lost even the desire to even question it. And no one can deny that ship of his is unlike anything we'veever seen before. You must miss him very much. I need your help. It takes more. Open your mind to the past. Art, history,philosophy. And all this may mean something. Ensign, prepare to resume course to T'lli Beta. Mister Data,what velocity would put us back on schedule? You have the Bridge, Number One. Oh, and will you bring thescan analysis to my quarters when you're off watch? Are the Ornarans recovering? Doctor Pulaski, report to Shuttlebay two. Hail the colony. Have you understood one word that we've said? I'm not surprised. Mister Worf, open a hailing frequency. Warnthe vessel to stay clear of the planet. Good enough to be useful to our abductors? Identify them. So that you can wake with the dawn and begin the hunt again. Bridge, this is the Captain. All stop. Activate a deflector dish. If we project a particle beam, wemay be able to produce a disruptive nuclear effect within the core. Off the bridge! Both of you. Position? Chief, transport them to the planet surface. Wesley, are you all right? I believe this is some form of information exchange withwhatever is over there. At least, I hope it is. Why her? I am aware of that, Admiral. Wrong, Number One. It was almost the longest. Well done. Mister Worf, this is as far as I can go. Fire. Commander Data knows precisely what he is doing. If I'm really dead, then my only regret is dying and findingyou here. Q Well, the ship is yours, Number One. Let's see if we can outrun them. Lieutenant La Forge, I wantmaximum warp I need the transporters to function despite the hyperonicradiation. I'm wary about making changes in this time continuum until weunderstand more about what's going on. There was a woman who was frightened. And then you saw heragain, laughing, presumably at Lieutenant Kwan. I have already reported our position and the nature of thisviolation to Starfleet. Excuse me, am I interrupting? Mister Kolrami. Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Welcome aboard. What is it? Mister Data, how long to the field? Seems you're right. Your escort will with you shortly. Picard out. Did you kill Lieutenant Rocha? A rift? Ensign, set a course for the Brechtian Cluster. Maybe we should be getting back to the Enterprise. What? Children on the Enterprise? Guinan, we're at war. The Enterprise is scheduled to leave the Tyran system tomorrow. If I'm to change that plan, I'll need a very good reason. Doctor Pulaski, you are needed in Shuttlebay two. Very good. I'm on my way. Thank you. He's alone. For the first time he's being forced to cope withhis environment without the resources of the Collective. Situation, Doctor. Take us out of warp, Ensign. Hail them on upper and lower band frequencies, Mister Worf. Stop! I cannot allow you to interfere with the operation ofthis ship. Mister Worf. Lieutenant. Qapla! The antimatter flow regulator is locked open. Send us your design specifications I'm sure we'll be able tohelp. Here's to the finest crew in Starfleet. You know, back when Iwas in the Academy, we would follow every toast with a song. I wonderif I can,oh, yes. 2 He's alive. Oh. Er, thank you. Look at that. Her right shoulder. That isthe same place that Data stabbed her. Objection. There is no conclusive evidence that this woman evervisited the planet a thousand years ago. You're not intruding. We're just finished. Come in. Thank you. But six more hours may not be enough. We have to stay hereuntil we find it, no matter how long it takes. Ensign, get us out of here. Warp nine. Later. Computer, all senior officers report to the Bridge. On screen. No, no. No Earth ship of that time could have travelled outthis far. Make it so. Yes. Yes, we've seen enough. You've made a sale. Go ahead, Mister Worf. Mister La Forge, whenever you're ready. Thank you, Lieutenant. Data, is there anything else that Lorecan tell us about it, it may be important. Can you control him enoughto question him? Let's go see if we can find them. Commander, I am singularly impressed by your concern for alife. Do not risk any more lives by leaving the Neutral Zone. Picardout. Ihat said that someone named Korgano isn't chasing Masakaanymore. And the old man said, he pursues her no longer. In a sense,this small symbol might be seen to be chasing Masaka. He's trying to find an access terminal so he can interface withthe collective. He doesn't understand that the signal has been cut off. All right. Mister Worf, throw him in the brig. Picard here. Have we disabled the Medical Lab computer console? But until we assemble it, we will never know its purpose. I'm aware of that, Commander. Tactical analysis, Mister Data. Picard to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher to Bridge, urgent. They mustnot be permitted them to destroy us. Or the planet. Captain's log, supplemental. It has been believedthe Tarellian race was extinct, an assumption contradicted now by thesight of one of their vessels approaching Haven. Doctor, this is Lieutenant Commander Data. Will you explain thesituation to him? Thank you. Then shall we continue with our mission? Options, Mister Worf? I don't know. It's covered up. I'm just clearing away the dirt. It's a viewscreen. It seems to still be operative. What is happening? Captain, have you any idea what has just happened? You made decisions you felt would save your colony. Thank you, conn. Commander, signal the following in alllanguages and on all frequencies. We surrender. State that we are notasking for any terms or conditions. If you wish, you can stay on board while we wait. The Enterprise? Very good. Acknowledged, La Forge. I must see my people in the shuttle. Leaving so soon? All right, Mister Worf. I want you to time the Doctor and methrough that first tunnel. And this time we're going to pick up thosefive seconds. They were not off the cruiser. They were from the freighterBatris. The leader is Captain Korris. Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Welcome aboard. These are my officers. My second in command, Commander William Riker. Ship's Counsellor,Deanna Troi. And my Security Officer, Lieutenant Natasha Yar. Begin monitoring Romulan activity along the Neutral Zone,Mister Data. Have the outpost stations send us their tactical reports. What do you make of it? No, not at all. Is something wrong? Yes, it would. It would be quite a shame. Ten Forward, you must release these peopleso that they can receive proper medical attention. Mister Data, when you scanned the temporal aperture with yourtricorder, it caused time to move forwards and then back again. One thousand and fourteen, including your guest, Doctor Quaice. Yes, that. No, no, back. Yes, that. Right there. What is that? Set phasers on stun. Number One, good luck. On screen. Sit down, Lieutenant. What did she say to you? I want to take that twentieth century historian. Well, actually, I wasn't Matter of internal security. The age-old cry of the oppressor. No, let's begin this with a show of good faith. It's over, Q! Get us out of here. Q Don't! Picard to Counsellor Troi. All right, you can tell Commander Data he has my permission tocontact his friend and conduct her to a safer location. Number One, youknow where we are now? What kind of incentive? RO I understand. You are seeing this ship, all of us, from aunique perspective. From a child's point of view. It must seem terriblyunfair and restrictive to you. As adults, we don't always stop toconsider how everything we say and do shapes the impressions of youngpeople. But if you're judging us as a people by the way we treat ourchildren, and I think there can be better criterion, then you mustunderstand how deeply we care for them. When our children are young,they don't understand what might be dangerous. Our rules are to keepthem from harm, real or imagined, and that's part of the continuity ofour human species. When Clara grows up, she will make rules for herchildren to protect them, as we protect her. They're living, sentient beings. Their rights and privileges inour society have been defined. I helped define them. Anna, Anna. Hail the scout. Condition? I remember. I do not fire on defenceless people. Mister Worf open a channelto the Lysians. It is imperative that we communicate with our abductors, findout what they want. Life form or not, intelligent or not , the safety of this shipand everyone aboard her is my primary responsibility. Data, evacuateall the air from the Medical Lab. I want a vacuum there. I look forward to your reports. Report. How far are we? Please, won't you sit down? Will you keep me informed? Our Data has said the same thing. You're using a Code Forty Seven. I have to know what this isall about. Fire. Oh, it's me, isn't it? I'm the someone. I'm the one it finds. That's what this launching is. A probe that finds me in the future. The woman, Anya, is not what she appears tobe. She is an allasomorph. I am Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. There's nothing unusual about that. You're doing it for Doctor Reyga, or yourself? The mantle is collapsing where the pressure was released. What could have caused such an event? Drugs? A virus? Poison? On this latest incident. Mister La Forge! Stand by to transport. What are you doing? Commander Riker will captain the Hathaway. Possibly, Number One, and I would be prepared to live with themystery, but Data's role in this must be ascertained or he'll never betrusted with starship duty again. Ensign, take us back to the scene ofthe crime. The T-tauri system, warp two. I'll be on the Bridge. You weren't under fire. Now, you'll have to work overtime in order to catch up, but Ihave assured the Admiral that you are capable of that. Please don'tmake a liar out of me. Are you saying that by not cooperating, you are actuallyprotecting us? On my way. So, it begins. Escape? The Enterprise responded, and found the warbird suffering froman apparent engine failure, and they attempted a power transfer. Ah, Captain. It's good to meet you. There is a force field at your location. Proceed. So you believe her, Counsellor? Acknowledged. Ensign, lay in a course to Starbase one two nine. Our medical officer discovered evidence of injuries so severe,they might be considered torture. I don't recall. No. That is absolutely out of the question. Picard out. What? Beverly, he can't make the journey you're asking of him. You want him to go from contemplating suicide to accepting his condition and living with the disability, but it's too far. The road between covers a lifetime of values, beliefs. He can't do it, Beverly. But perhaps he can come part of the way. Maybe he can be persuaded to forgo the ritual in order to take the chance at regaining the kind of life he needs. A Klingon may not be good at accepting defeat, but he knows all about taking risks. On screen. Magnify. That is correct. Well, it should be a very enjoyable visit, then. She'll betransporting on board as soon as we reach the Starbase. Would you liketo greet her on our behalf? I think we can handle the situation. Picard. Mirasta Yale? Very well. My experience suggests that they would ignore him. Would youagree? Chief O'Brien, this is Captain Picard. Will you beam theFerengi directly to the Observation lounge? Well, now that we've established our mutual good will, what'son your mind? A debt? Q And what if there is, Mister Tholl? Shall we continue accusingone another until hostility leads to violence? Shall we allow oursuspicions to destroy us? Now, let's see if we can override this stunmechanism. 2 Remarkable. And so these Captain, how long have you been in command of this freighter? Darwin Station, this is the Enterprise. Full impulse. Engage. You have nothing to prove anything here, Lieutenant. Well, let's find out. Commander Data? What happened? Not possible. We're expected at Pacifica, Tau Ceti Three. It was a bar. Quite an exotic one as Iremember. What do I win? But there's a danger in becoming too detached, of neverpermitting ourselves to get closer. Very well. Good luck, Mister Data. The challenge was carried out. She died, Lutan. Agreed. Doctor, go with him. Play back the Captain's last entry. Meaning? Reactions? We name this child for a dear friend who died a year ago. Butnow his memory will live on in his namesake. Objection. I understand, Lieutenant. Tell him what happened, Narik. Mister Crusher. Set course to rendezvous with the Hood. Warpeight. That's excellent, Number One. On screen. I know how it sounds but it happened. It was real. I was there,back on board the Enterprise. This border places several Federation colonies in Cardassianterritory and some Cardassian colonies in ours. Commander of the Enterprise formerly assigned to the Hood. Guinan, they will die moments after they return. How can I askthem to sacrifice themselves based solely on your intuition? We think we've come so far. The torture of heretics, theburning of witches, it's all ancient history. Then, before you canblink an eye, it suddenly threatens to start all over again. I'm reading power fluctuations. The force field is not stable. Tuppence. Two pence. Supposed to be good luck. We may needsome. I never wanted to become Sarek? Make it so. I'm on my way. I wonder. But the point of this is, whether you and it haveapproximately the same capabilities. Well, they seem to have a somewhat exaggerated impression ofme. It's all right. It's all right. No, I would not. Computer, display an internal schematicdiagram. Dorvan Five? Isn't that where the group of North AmericanIndians settled? What could they possibly be doing down there? Listen to me. Now where did that come from? That still won't give us control of the ship. Number One, we'll proceed to Indri Eight. Inertial dampeners are offline. Life support is failing. I think it is reasonable to take precautions. Can you translate it? Mister Worf, have our passenger's accommodations met with theirapproval? I mean no disrespect, but we are faced with an alarmingsituation Not a task that I'm looking forward to. Yes. Well. Picard to Engineering. I think I should meet with this Acost Jared. He's still ourbest hope for the release of the hostages. You'll have to fill in, Number One. Is she alive? By all means. Well, I suppose I'll see you then, then. You're right, of course. Come. How? The odds are. Deanna. Rishon and Kevin? And? I am concerned that if you return to your own time withknowledge of the future I'll take that as a yes. You're with me. I've heard more than enough. You're you again. Some of it I do understand. She is a rather lovely female. All stop. On screen. Then it is larger in the past. Your mentors? Ensign Crusher has requested to remain on the Enterprise. It's trying to communicate with us. Captain's log, supplemental. The inorganic lifeform from Velara Three has apparently taken over our Medical Lab. They wanted us to leave Rana and that's exactly what we'redoing. Picard to Bridge. Mister Crusher make it so. Transporter Chief, prepare to beam Captain Kargan back aboardthe Pagh. We can't afford to stay here any longer. We'll leave a classfour probe behind to study the energyfield but the distress signal from Ligos Seven has top priority. Let meknow as soon as you have any further information, Doctor. Number One,you're with me. Picard to Riker. Red alert. Take us in, Ensign. One half impulse. Let me talk to my superiors, find out what's behind this. Giveme one hour. The alternative is for us to continue firing at one other,and in such a contest, you would be at a disadvantage. Does this have something to do with the Klingons you rescuedfrom Carraya Four? Number One, kindly take charge of ourguests until we have time to decide what we're going to do with them. Granted. I never said there was a prospect. Permission granted. They've picked a fine officer for the taskforce, Commander. Our reality? And in order to satisfy this curiosity, you havebrought my ship and my crew into great risk. Check it again, Mister Data, and check every Ventaxian legalprecedent for the last one thousand years. We'll talk again in themorning. What if I don't avoid the fight? What if I won't make thechanges? Q If it is a design flaw, we're better to stay where we are andgive Geordi time to work on it. Or what happened to the Yamato couldhappen to us. You interfered with our Farpoint mission. You threatened toconvict us as ignorant savages, if, while dealing with a powerful andcomplex life forms, we made the slightest mistake, and when that didn'thappen Q Engineering. Main Engineering. Are you having a goodlaugh now, Q? Does it amuse you to think of me living out the rest ofmy life as a dreary man in a tedious job? Q Make it so. Beverly, I cannot believe that you are notwilling to stay here until we Would you care for some coffee, Ensign? We are capable of recreating all of these events. It's justthat she dresses them up and she delivers them with more dramaticflair. Oh, yes. Ardra's magic. Jared, would you believe me if I toldyou that I could steal her powers and perform the same magical acts asshe? What else have you found out? What's that? Then I so challenge. Convene your hearing. Make it so. Suggestions? Report. I am Captain Picard. I wasn't dreaming. Something happened. That's all right. Er, allow me to introduce you. This isBeverly, Doctor Beverly, Doctor Beverly Crusher. This is Vash. She's afriend of mine from the Archaeology Council. Any indications of life, Mister Worf? When you test next year, and you will test next year, do youthink your performance will improve? Do you know where he is? Could he help us restore normal time? I hope that's true, Mister Data. Nevertheless, thisinvestigation began with your death. I am simply trying to see that itdoesn't end that way. Let it go. There must be someone with her. We should make itlook as though we're trying to stop them. Mister Worf, lock phasers ontheir previous position and fire. On screen. I see. So how we respond to a game tells you more about us thanour real life, this tale told by an idiot? Interesting, Q. Q Perhaps it's perfectly normal among the Trill. Noted. This is an unhappy way to begin commencement. If you requireany assistance, then the Enterprise is at your disposal. And you? Not good enough, damn it. Not good enough. I will not ask themto die. Our guests will be moving shortly to cargobay four, where the transport will occur. I want you to ensure them ofsafe passage between Ten Forward to the cargo bay. Apparently not. This is a rare case when our interests and theirs coincide. Weboth want peace in the Demilitarised Zone. RO Then how Admiral, welcome aboard. Is Gowron aware that we have been transmitting messages for thepast three days? Counsellor, we no longer have a choice. We reach Nahmi Four in twenty two hours. We'll want alltransporters operational by then. I want a level one diagnostic acrossthe board. Oh, he gave me quite a game for his first time out. I honestly don't know. Good-bye my friend. Go to half impulse power. Will you join me in theObservation lounge when you're done? You understand I will not cooperate with you in any way. The explanation is simple. Your attempt to capture our ship hasfailed. And you don't know how to align a control coil? We're preparing to take the Brittain in tow. We'll be on ourway within the hour. Intact, for the most part. Yellow alert. Hail the Warbird, Mister Worf. Data, what are you suggesting? Until tonight, Lutan. Mister Worf, escort Commander Riker from the Bridge. I'm sorry. I couldn't possibly subject Counsellor Troi to apotentially dangerous procedure. Signal the fleet to maintain yellow alert until further notice. We will leave and never return. Chancellor, we are here only tohelp guide you into a new era. I can assure you we will not interferein the natural development of your planet. That is, in fact, our PrimeDirective. Unless that was the mistake. Staying too long. Number One. On screen. Mister Worf, provide security. As I understand it, over time they have become sointerconnected with the master computer on their planet that theirlanguage, their thought patterns have become as close to binary as it'spossible for organic beings. How convenient. Except, Number One, I have absolutely nointention of taking a holiday. Is that clear? We have to stop it! The security of the Enterprise is of paramount importance,Mister Worf. Search theoretical. That is enough, Ensign. When addressing a senior officer. May I have a word with you, alone? But in forty years, they've never attacked a Federation target. But when you set foot on this ship again, I expect you toperform your duties like a Starfleet officer. No. Thank you. Commander La Forge, can you get us out of this star systemsafely? I'm not sure that I can tell you. He puts up so many barriers Ihave no idea what's underneath. Why is he unconscious? What happened to him? Mister Worf, see that the representatives are safelytransported off the ship. Ensign, set a course to intercept with theTrill ship. Prepare to go to warp nine. Are these beingsPICARD No, Tam, I don't believe that I do. Tam, when you reached outto the alien, to warn it, did you give any thought to this vessel? Tothe danger, however inadvertent, that creature might pose to our crew? Or did you simply react out of instinct? Why didn't we detect this before now? Well, if we're not holding the Ferengi and they're not holdingus, who the hell is? Mister Worf, has there been any response to our hails? Oh, I'll sleep here. Yes, Mister Data? What? The first on. Captain Debin. Captain, let me ask youagain. What are Okona's crimes? Look after me? You? You were a bully. All right. Just don't point that thing at me. Helm, one quarter impulse. Engage. If you wanted us to review your research, you should have madea request through the Science Council. Doctor, I will be the judge of reasonable. And I think that falls into this category. No, no, neither have I. No? Then she must have destroyed all the weapons on the planet. Will you escort Commander Data to Engineering? No, no, certainly not. I'm really looking forward to it. Is there any connection between that structure and the shipfragment we found? We can't make that assumption. The effect on the Yamato wasdevastating, but what if it was by accident, not by design. What I'mgoing to say may sound unscientific, but standing on this soil,breathing in this air, my instincts tell me that we may have got themwrong. How can a geometric form disable a computer system? Processing centre? I asked if you knew who it is. Youmentioned the Ferengi Alliance to me. Comments. That kind of control is an illusion. Replicators and stabilisers. Two totally unrelated systems. I see. That's very, very commendable. And you? How unlikely? Phillipa. Dinner? Ferengi vessel. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of theEnterprise. We are transmitting visually. I would rather destroy the ship than allowthat material to fall into the hands of terrorists. Yes, Doctor. Sit down. Look, this perhaps may be nothings, butI've been feeling a bit odd of late. Fatigued. And now I've got thisdamned headache. Can you localise the source of the gravitational field? Trilithium resin is a highly toxic wasteproduct produced by our engines. Nothing our sensors were able to detect indicated that theEssex went down in that region. I think I'll take this opportunity to remove my ears. We haven't done any analysis. And you. Admiral, this Maquis situation has you worried. Go ahead, Data. This is Captain Picard. To whom am I speaking? A theory? Oh yes, this is very impressive, Mister Worf. But we'll betaking on new personnel at Starbase one eighteen in a few weeks. Surelythe drills can wait until then. At ease. It's Captain, actually. Come. Source? No, they are not. He understood. We should have access very soon. Admiral. Shields up. I want to see him. Here. Now. Prepare two class one probes. No. Ambassador. Number One, set a course one three zero marktwo four six, warp seven. Guinan, that was twenty three years ago. Tasha Yar was only achild. But why did you believe that bringing me here would give you abetter understanding of love? Transporter room three, have you been ableto lock on to the away team? Don't start. This is important to me. Is there an option? Addictive? What have you discovered? The internal clock. We are prepared to transport you fromthe surface whether you come willingly or not. What do you make of this? Nonsense. It is only And deadly. I'm sorry. Aldebaran whiskey. Who do you think gave it to Guinan? Worf, help him up. All decks, all stations. Battle stations. Friends, close friends, are few and farbetween. Two of the oldest and closest are Jack Crusher, may he rest inpeace, and Walker Keel. Before various missions split us apart, we werevirtually inseparable. I trust Keel completely. If he felt it necessaryto violate regulations, he must have had a good reason. Doctor, our options in a quarantine situation are extremelylimited. We are going to consider the possibilities. I suggest you dothe same. Good. Return at once. I'm not brooding. I'm immersed in my music. Set course to intersect with the freighter. Warp two. Credit where credit is due, madam. I can see you are a womannot only of breeding, but of wit and sagacity. And Doctor? Good luck. Number One, perhaps you'd better take an away team down andhave a closer look. I need to see my father. I can't accept that. What of Data? Lieutenant, your torpedoes must detonate close enough to thehostile to blind it at the moment we separate. Oh, yes, of course, Number One. Proceed. Engage deflector shield. Full power. Deck seven. Picard to Worf. No. Here. On screen. Commander Data, welcome on board. It's so very good to see you. I see. So she advised this council? Very impressive design. I can't get the story of Gulliver out of myhead. Overpowered by Lilliputians. How long do we have to wait? Hard about, full impulse. RO Commander, let me remind you we are on a mission ofexploration. Our purpose is to establish peaceful relations with thecivilisations we encounter. Analysis, Mister Data. Donald, what's a nice Starfleet Captain like you doing in aplace like this? Deceive them? To die on a transporter. Hardly a fitting end for one of theFederation's most honoured diplomats. I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. Yellow Alert. Riva, Commander Data has learned your sign language. Talk tous. This way. I will speak to the Ambassador about easing your restrictions. We'll be on our way. Mister Worf? Counsellor. Commander Riker, please take command ofthe ship until further notice. Well of course, Lieutenant. Choose whomever you wish. Are you in charge here? Where is the boy now? Commander La Forge, get Mister O'Brien. Take that transportersystem apart piece by piece if you have to. Mister Worf, I want a levelthree security alert until further notice. Data? Divert emergency life support to those decks. I don't have an answer for that. A few hours ago, weencountered a warship. Possibly the one which attacked you. We forcedit to leave the system but we were unable to affect it otherwise. Itcould return. I'm sorry, but under the circumstances, until we know what'sgoing on I'm imposing a full quarantine on Darwin Station. Excellent. Mister Crusher, engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Drop the force field. A private consulting investigator, Data, who solves crimes. We can't afford to start second guessing ourselves. We shouldstay on this course until we have reason to change it. But in themeantime, I think we should do what we can to avoid a collision. I'm not sure we have any legal basis for such a prosecution. Memory invasion is simply not a crime we've ever had to contend with. Will this creature be able to survive on its own without theparent? Beverly! Indeed? Surprised he's not busy gloating over his victory. Are we ready, Commander La Forge? After what happened on Garon Two, she has no business servingon any starship, let alone the flagship, my ship. Amanda's question deserves an answer, Q. You've made yourselfjudge, jury, and if necessary executioner. By what right have youappointed yourself to this position? Q That's the Data that I remember. I knew I could count on you. Transporter? Do it. Then report to Mister Riker. Well, ordinarily he wouldn't, but of course I was his Arbiterof Succession. I'm sure that he will be happy to come here andinvestigate this matter. You needn't worry about it any longer. Mister La Forge, go to warp. Evasive, Mister Crusher. Hailing frequencies. Full stop, helm. Computer, how were the Argus reactors shutdown? Numbers? Then, sir, the courtesy of seeing Lieutenant Yar. Prognosis? Dream not of today. Real. The subject of this meeting is the Jaradan rendezvous. Mister Riker, will you go ahead with the briefing. What happened? Margaret, something's very wrong here. Do you know what's goingon? I want to go over to her. You know him? Well, yes, of course, if all parties request it. And I have rejected your explanation. She's a fine ship, Will. I regret a great many things from those days. Q We've been monitoring your progress toward warp-drivecapability. When a society reaches your level of technology and isclearly about to initiate warp travel, we feel the time is right forfirst contact. We prefer meeting like this, rather than a randomconfrontation in deep space. No. Please, Mister Worf. Come in. I can't stop them. I can't. I can't. Why isn't the anomaly being affected? Twenty dollars a day, plus expenses. Beverly, I don't have to remind you of the psychological impactof being a hostage. It's an herbal tea blend. I, er, found it in the replicatorfiles. Have you met any of the new crewmembers who came aboard atStarbase two eighteen? That's quite right. And as I'm supposed to be dead, I'll go andget some sleep. And, Mister Data, I suggest that you escort CommanderRiker to the brig. You disobeyed my direct order. You putyourself in grave danger. I am not happy. I want you to know that I am aware of your discomfort. Compliments, Lieutenant. That's seven. You said there were eight. Triolic waves? Mister Worf. I'm that glad you approve. Engage. Good. I've spoken with Admiral Brand and she's agreed to allowus access to all of the physical evidence and testimony. Thank you,gentlemen. Make it so, Data. Lock onto the beacon. Keep it dead astern. Computer, freeze programme. Computer, this isn't what I wantedat all. It's much to violent. I'm here to relax, not to dodge bullets. Reconfigure. I know, Mister Data. Can we establish communication? Could the T'Ong be disabled rather than destroyed? Step on it. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. If we could get to the root command, we could introduce aninvasive programming sequence through its biochip system and thenreturn it to the hive. Energise. Any particular reason for this change of heart? We believe it the outer rim. Maman, do you understand thesethings? Can you tell me where my ship is? What is this place? As soon as the Ambassador transports over from the Decius. Wewill get through this, as we have many times before. For a later discussion. Number One, I think we should get onwith our mission. Starfleet can send a science vessel back toinvestigate further. Move us back out of here. Three. Humanoid. I only saw the face of one of them. The Enterprise will continue with Riker as Captain. Q No, Worf. Report, Number One. I find it hard to believe that you're here to do us a favour. Q Are you certain, Mister Worf? All remaining power to the defence systems. Number One, prepare your away team. I'm curious, Doctor. There are far greater experts on Earth toinvestigate your mystery. Why bring the Enterprise all the way home? Whenever I look at you now, I won't see a powerful Cardassianwarrior. I will see a six year old boy who is powerless to protecthimself. Felicitations. Sound familiar? Mister La Forge. Mister La Forge, what is your status? It's another piece to of puzzle. When? In a few moments, Doctor. Our forensic team is trying to identify anyone who might havebeen in cargo bay four today. Later, Data. A fish, Commander. A delicacy from the Caspian Seaon Earth It's a favourite of mine. Our replicator's never done itjustice, but I managed to store a few cases for special occasions. I can't do that. I love a mystery, Data, but this one will have to to wait untilwe deliver the delegates to their peace conference on Parliament. Timeand tide, Lieutenant La Forge. Go to warp eight. Number One, you have the Bridge. So far our survey team has found no deaths or injuries amongthe crew. Shuttlecraft are all operational, as are the transporters. Bridge. You have the Bridge, Mister McDowell. I'll be at the service inTen Forward. You're saying that when our time intersects with the time heleft, in that instant he will function normally and, and there will betwo of us. Target that location and define. Ambassador. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Do it. Picard here. What's going on? These are Commander Troi's quarters. Can you tell if she'sinside? Counsellor? What is it? Captain, Federation Starship Enterprise. Well, it was strong, whatever it was. Are you ready, NumberOne. Continue quarantine. Comfortable? What do you think, Counsellor? We'll be underway as soon as our enginesare online. So you believe that what you saw was some kind of transmission? We do need you. Damage report. Have you calculated how much further we have to go? Unfortunately, this vessel is about to undergo extensiverepairs requiring my personal supervision. But you took Sovak's money. There is no need to make threats. We each know theconsequences. And it is against Starfleet orders to accept a surrenderotherwise. Do you withdraw your surrender? You believe it's a design flaw? Mister Data, your resourcefulness never ceases to amaze me. Worf's challenge is successful. The honour of his family mustbe restored. On main viewer. Hailing frequency. Scan for earthworks or monuments that might indicate a previouscivilisation. Did everyone know about this except me? I'll be all rightsitting here. You go off with the others. Hold onto my grandson, andwatch the damned thing go up for all the good it'll do. What is itthey're launching? So why do you now live in huts? Yes, and Wesley may have given us a few seconds, too. To whom am I speaking? Do it! Discussion is irrelevant. There are no terms. You will disarm all your weapons and escort us to Sector zero zero onewhere we will begin assimilating your culture and technology. I am Jean Luc Picard. Doctor? My hand. Transporter Room. You're out of time. Yes, Whalen. I bet he knows more about Dixon Hill than I do. If my crew say there was no sabotage, then you can be surethere was none. Roots? What, these? I wish you well. Mister Worf? So, what are your plans? Seen from far, far above. Mister Worf, can you detonate a torpedo spread between theMaquis ships and the Cardassians? Oh, very good. I've read all this before, you know. It'sabsolutely as it should be. Number One, I've just been recollecting the arrival of a newFirst Officer on board the Enterprise, and a manual docking confidentlyachieved. I may have been somewhat miserly in my congratulations then,so let me make up for it now. The Captain of the Starship Ares isretiring. Congratulations. You've been selected as his replacement. What are these animals doing here, Number One. La Forge? Can you identify the class of these ships, Mister Worf? You're going to need them. Then there was never a problem with the Enterprise. Yes I have, Number One. Bridge. Ensign er, Ensign? Captain, I'm losing you. Go ahead and beam your passengers onboard. Counsellor, after you've seen to their needs will you escortthem to my Ready room. If the Romulans wish the honour of thefirst contact, let them have it. That's no concern, Number One. It's here and it's precisely onschedule. As simple as that. Can any of you suggest any other suspects? Like Fermat's theorem, it's a puzzle we may never solve. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Do you happen to know what time the intercessor's office acrossthe way opens? Your word has always been good enough for me. What is it? Mute it, Mister Data. With that storm activity down there, itisn't worth the risk to check on a ghost ship. Advise Starfleet that wehave solved the mystery of Captain Shumar and the Essex. The answer to all of this is feeding intoyour medical banks right now. Including a cure. Number One, you say the couple is incapable of sustainingthemselves? We'll hold position while we seek an explanation for theseanomalies. Let's divert all our resources to that end. Mister Data, disengage the power transfer. Data, I need those logs. Counsellor. Karnas, this is Admiral Mark Jameson. Picard to Enterprise. A chance for your culture, your people, to survive and grow. Corey, there's got to be a better way to handle this. Tell me, Governor, I'm curious. You're obviously not Scotsyourself. What was it that drew you here? Data. I was not aware that Sarek was offended by Spock's opposition. On screen. I am Jean Luc  We've established the presence of whatappears to be an alien entity on board. It seems the entity hasmanifesteditself in the form of a twelve year old human girl who has been seenwith Clara Sutter. She has blonde hair, blue eyes That's right. We have no wish to kill you. We never have. Conversation is necessary if we are to find a solution to ourmutual problem. What's your best area of study? Maintain this course, Ensign. Three quarters impulse. RO We don't have much time. It's good to seeyou, Will. I didn't expect to meet you here. What's the problem? Who's manning the command post? Come. You see, he's met two of your three criteria for sentience, sowhat if he meets the third. Consciousness in even the smallest degree. What is he then? I don't know. Do you? Do you? Do you? Well, that's the question you have to answer. Your Honour, thecourtroom is a crucible. In it we burn away irrelevancies until we areleft with a pure product, the truth for all time. Now, sooner or later,this man or others like him will succeed in replicating Commander Data. And the decision you reach here today will determine how we will regardthis creation of our genius. It will reveal the kind of a people weare, what he is destined to be. It will reach far beyond this courtroomand this one android. It could significantly redefine the boundaries ofpersonal liberty and freedom, expanding them for some, savagelycurtailing them for others. Are you prepared to condemn him and all whocome after him to servitude and slavery? Your Honour, Starfleet wasfounded to seek out new life. Well, there it sits. Waiting. You wanteda chance to make law. Well, here it is. Make a good one. Indeed? Full scan. Guinan? Yes everything's fine. Is something wrong? Not yet. But you will. Then Counsellor Troi is still alive? Even if I had reason to believe that would be successful, Idon't think that I could sanction it. Please understand, Professor,that you are in essence a new life form. One that we didn't intend tocreate and that we don't fully understand. Now the moral and ethicalimplications of deliberately creating another one like you areoverwhelming. Mister La Forge? It's not up to us to judge their laws, Doctor. Report, Number One. You can't expect me to believe that the layout of my ready roomcan possibly be of interest to future historians. Commander, I need to see you on the Bridge. If you believe I am all-powerful, then you cannot hurt me. If,however, I am telling the truth and I am mortal, you will kill me. Butif the only proof you will believe is my death, then shoot. Yes, Harry. But by your own admission, Reyga was a difficult man tounderstand. Isn't it possible that he was simply masking his feelings? Even if these weapons are genuine, I can assure you that athird party must have been involved. The Federation is not in thebusiness of supplying arms to rebels. We need you here. There's still time. Ensign, will you work with mister Data totry to remove them safely. If things get worse, we'll use strongermeasures. They wouldn't intentionally hide it or make it difficult for usto find. It must be right in front of our faces. A minor mystery?. That seems to be a recurring phrase thesedays. Oh, Diomedian scarlet moss. I didn't know you were anenthnobotanist. Gentlemen. I think we must not lose sight of the fact thatwe're talking about someone who has been granted ambassadorial rank. Even though she may appear somewhat eccentric, Lwaxana Troi must betreated with the appropriate respect. Is that understood? Picard toPulaski. We have the information you requested. Colonel Stephen Richeywas the commanding officer of the explorer ship Charybdis Walker! Is there any way that we can disconnect him? Commander, would you enlighten us? What is required forsentience? The Romulans could use this technology as a weapon. Your daughter is lovely. Perhaps you could go to the shuttle bring the equipment backhere. Is he injured? And you have about equal physical strength and mental abilities? Mister Worf, Stellar Dynamics would like nothing better than atrip around the nebula. On screen. But what about your wishes, your needs? Well, it was little better at the physiognomy workshop. DoctorVassbinder gave an hour long dissertation on the ionisation effect ofwarp nacelles before he realised that the topic was supposed to bepsychology. Then it seems that the discussion is over. Captain's log, supplemental. We have finallyarrived at 'audet Nine, where we will pick up the specimens of plasmaplague for transport to Rachelis. It is only because so many lives areat stake that I am willing to put this ship and crew at such greatrisk. Meanwhile, Counsellor Troi's pregnancy continues to progress atan astonishing rate. It's the Bynars, and you're part of this. I know what it is. Don't sedate him. Let him be. Please. Lethim to remain conscious. Warp three, evasive. Stand by. Disengage weapons and shields. Re-engage modified beam. I'm pleased you agreed to meet with us, Mister Keeve. No. Yes. Yes. Bridge. You are a certified pilot, Ensign? Make it so. Yellow alert. Hail the Ferengi. Must we destroy them to save ourselves? What is it? Are you still convinced he's me? In that case, we'll be on our way. I'll relay your position toyour government if you wish, in case you're unable to complete yourrepairs and you remain stranded. Yes, I came to you. You're the officer for this sector. Ihad no choice but to come to you. You're right. We can't react to every random thought thatcrosses the other person's mind. Isn't astonishing, though, how muchclutter there is in a consciousness. Odd memories coming to thesurface. Bitsof half-remembered songs. Number One, the situation is under control. That's what I thought you said. The Kriosians have authorised me to make several compromisesfavourable to your position. Do you recognise me? I'm the Captain and I need answers. Whoever took your place wasn't afraid of Masaka. He seemedeager for his fate. Well, I could talk to Noor. Perhaps there's a way to worksomething out. Ensign. Well, there's nothing much to talk about. Doctor, I appreciate your time constraints, but recognising newlife, whatever its form, is the principal mission of this vessel. Please. Now, Mister Data, will you tell us what makes you think thatthe exocomps are alive? You seem rather taken with her, JP. Goodness had nothing to do with it. Three to beam up. MisterData will remain on the surface. Data, I want a complete report on thecontents of these documents. I refuse to abandon this planet to thatwoman. Energise. Enterprise. Enterprise, do you read me? Enterprise, come in. Records search, Data. Results of detaching saucer section athigh warp velocity. The earliest was some twenty two thousand years ago. Why? What is the source of that risk? The energy field? But you said yourself that this is only a possibility. I'm standing directly in front of the gate. To my left there isa small triangular screen. Which your world furnishes you in plenty. That's it. Make it so. Very well. Sorry. I was in the past again. What's going on? There'll be no conflict. Then I'll operate the transporter controls myself. If she'sgoing to be consigned to oblivion, then Come. Yes, I can. We have learned that if we uncouple thetransporter's Heisenberg Compensators and allow them to re-scramblerandomly, we can beam a holodeck object or a person off the grid withall of the cohesion of conventional matter. Acknowledged. You've reported in, haven't you? You are qualified? Then explain the fractured ribs, concussion, the broken arm. Mister Data, I want you to access anyavailable records on Amanda Rogers. Data? You made a mistake twelve years ago, but your service sincethen has earned you a great deal of respect, but this incident may costyou some of that respect. I'm asking you to look at your career objectively. Will, you'reready to work without a net. You're ready to take command. And, youknow, the Enterprise will go along just fine without you. Shut off the power to the Bridge. Mirasta said it would be a mistake to discuss this with you. All stop. Initiate long range scans. With me? I'll be right there. Thank you, Lieutenant. Do I really seem that different? Explain. Lay in that course, Ensign, and engage at full impulse. Thank Aunt Adele. Agreed! <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. What do you suggest? Alexander, would you mind if I borrowed your toy for alittle while? You should know that is impossible. Would you wait outside? Against your keeping out of humanity's path for ever. Done? Q No! Sur le pont d'Avignon on y danse on y danse. I'm aware of the Federation's timetable, Number One. ProfessorGalen visited here a few days ago. And he was on his way to Indri Eightwhen he was killed. There's some connection between these two planets. I'm going to find it. I need his services. He was recommended. Do we know each other? Can you identify it? Tea, Earl Grey, hot. Thank you. Engage. Patience is a human virtue, one which I am glad to see you'vetaken to heart. But doesn't this situation require a more Klingonresponse? Your discommendation is a facade to protect less honourablemen. It is a lie. Lies must be challenged. Agreed. Picard to Sickbay. Beverly, we're going to be sweeping the shipwith a high frequency IP pulse. Will you monitor the creatures for anyresponse? Thank you, Counsellor. Number One, it seemsour Security Chief has the equivalent of a snootful. Stay with Q. Thank you, no. Very good, Commander. Yes, but it would've been a more fitting legacy if the messagehad not fallen on such deaf ears. I know that. I haven't completely lost my mind, you know. My crew and I need a bit more informationbefore we make our recommendations to Starfleet. What is he? Data, can we be getting a false reading? I had a long talk with Professor Galen last night. He asked meto leave the Enterprise, to join him in an archaeological expeditionwhich could last for nearly a year. I seem to have made a rather disturbing discovery. Louismentioned the Atlantis project needed a director, and I found myselfactually thinking about it. Picard to Enterprise. Anyone receiving this transmission,please respond. Mister La Forge, I may have to take us out of the nebula. Iwant all the power you can give me. Ambassador K'Ehleyr. This is an unexpected pleasure. Then I will be forced to remove you by whatever means arenecessary. Admiral Satie? We've arranged a demonstration to illustrate. Mister La Forge,I think it's about time, isn't it? Of course. A spider? Grand. You were much as my people once were. Savage, warlike. Why? Is someone ill? Or would you rather tell her about this,Wes? There are submicron fractures in the metal casing. All shields to maximum. Q. End this. Q Granted. Welcome back. It's all right, Madeline, I'll take it in here. Was there a reason? Q Close channel. And get me that treaty. They've been beating usover the head with it for three days. Let's see if we can't findsomething in it that we can turn to our own advantage. By all means. From what? Bach, the third Brandenburg. You're going to deny us travel through space? Q But if it doesn't work, we won't have another chance for eightyears. That sounds like someone who hated life. Yet he had himselffrozen presumably so he could go through it all again. Picard, epsilon seven nine three. You have the Bridge, Number One. Proceed. Legend has it that they travelled without the benefit ofspaceships, merely appearing out of thin air on distant planets. Can we decode it? Mister Data, I want you to investigate those eleven planetsthat the Ullians visited. See if there were any reports of unexplainedcomas. I would like you all to put together a research proposal forthe Science Council. I'll give it my full recommendation. Hail them. I came to invite you, and your husband if he is available, to aMozart recital this evening. Agreed. Get us out of here. I could use your help with the infuser array. Immediately. RO Captain! Donald, come in! So be it. Wyatt seems a fine young man. Right. Right. Klingons. In this time period, the Klingons havetaken over the Romulan Empire. Picard to Riker. What I would like is to be returned to my ship. I'm afraid we're going to have to evacuate your people. If he has nothing to give us, we should kill him now and bedone with it. Everyone seems to recognise that fact except you. Beverly? Mister Worf, will you route the call through to DoctorCrusher's office. These are the science stations. From the command centre here,we have control of the science stations The Prime Directive forbids us to interfere with the socialorder of any planet. All stop. Battle alert, Mister Crusher. Condition Yellow. I don't know, and if you're asking me what I think you shoulddo, I don't know that either. I can spell out for you, albeit crudely,what you are choosing between. As the First Officer of the Enterpriseyou have a position of distinction, prestige, even glamour of a sort. You are the second in command of Starfleet's flagship, but still secondin command. Your promotion will transfer you to a relativelyinsignificant ship in an obscure corner of the galaxy> But itwill be your ship, and being who you are, it will soon be vibrant withyour authority, your style, your vision. You know, there really is nosubstitute for holding the reins. The further back in time, the larger the anomaly. Q This wouldn't quench your thirst, it would make it worse. It has been accomplished before. Is there any indication of a more conciliatory attitude ontheir part? It seems the Edo Lord agrees with you, Number One. According to this we're already well past the point at which weentered the void. Raise all shields, phasers at ready. It's true that our presence here has had an unintendedinfluence on your society. But it's done and thereis no way to undo it. But feelings are running very high. Perhaps it'snot such a bad idea that you should take adequate time to weighcarefully the consequences of what you're about to do. We are preparedto return in six months. It goes deeper than that. A fine war mare would sleep in abedouin's tent, carry him into battle, feed his children with her milk. There's a bond which is created by mutual need. Hello, beautiful. Is it? Computer, run Tayna programme four, time index eighteenone four. But I am. Picard of the Federation. Of the starship Enterprise. Of theplanet Earth. Did you have any idea, Lieutenant, that Lutan was suddenlygoing to announce that he wanted you for his First One? This is not true. I have the deepest deal of respect for yourbeliefs and the meaning that they hold for your people. How did this happen? We cannot allow you to do that! We will fight you. Believe it. I'd been sent to make preliminary overtures to atruce. I'd lowered my shields as a gesture of good will. But theCardassians were not impressed. They had taken out most of my weaponsand damaged the impulse engines before I could regroup and run. Our memorial service may have been premature. What anachievement. 'So long as men can breathe or eyes can see, so long livesthis, and this gives life to thee.' Two. Is your quarantine intact? Counsellor? Data, intoxication is a human condition. Your mind isdifferent, it's not the same as With the contamination? Delete audio. All right, this'll have to do. We're here. there's a service conduit that runs to here and then leads to aJeffries tube here. But you and Ensign Ro will still have to cross thiscorridor before you can get to main Engineering. RO JR Have a real look. A risk we have to take. But if she really is Q, she must understand what that means. Very well, I will introduce you. But we cannot argue like this in frontof her. We must at least appear to be Q Oh, yes. That's how it starts. But the road from legitimatesuspicion to rampant paranoia is very much shorter than we think. Something is wrong here, Mister Worf. I don't like what we have become. Try harder, Geordi. He's a member of your team. Try to findsome way to help him to make a positive contribution. Get to know theman better. Make him your best friend. Picard to Bridge. Intruder alert. Picard to Bridge. Perhaps there's a way that we could give you an advantage. Away of keeping you conscious after they have taken you. Doctor, can youdevelop some counter-agent to the neuro-sedative that they have beengiving the crew? Now, remember to control your descent and don't get the linestangled. Make it so. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. I lost a bet. Is there nothing of Data in what I'm hearing? You see, youchose the violinists. Heifetz and Bronken have radically differentstyles, different techniques, yet you combined them successfully. Commander, any explanation for this injector problem? I tend to agree, Number One. After they died? I am pursuing it with due vigilance. It is necessary. You're in great danger. A warship hasreturned. Counsellor? Report. Because they needed a liaison to communicate with humans. Theyignored every away team we sent to their ship, including yours, Doctor. You may accompany him. Goodbye. I want to talk with her but I understand that Korgano is theonly one who can do that. Ensign, will you wait outside? Have a seat, Admiral Jarok. Continue a full sensor sweep. I want all the information we cangather. Mister Worf, you and Mister Data will accompany me. MisterO'Brien can keep a lock on our communicators. He can pull us out ifnecessary. On screen. Magnify. Lieutenant. Permission granted. Beverly, the important thing during any confinement is to thinkpositively and not give up hope. There is a way out of every box, thereis a solution to every puzzle. It's just a matter of finding it. I assure you, Mister Worf, these are not jat'yIn. Our job is tofind out exactly what they are and then to determine how to deal withthem. You will not be extinguished. We will save this programme, andhopefully, in time, when we know enough, we will bring you back in aform which could leave the holodeck. Commander, can you hear me? The profit, DaiMon Tarr, of saving all our lives. Move to intercept. Is there a treatment? I'll attend to my duty. We're nearly there. Can you continue? I haven't as yet, Number One. I didn't think it was myresponsibility alone. His remaining will create difficulties for usall. Yes, why not? We're talking about a threat to the entire futureof the Federation. I don't think any of us can rest easy until we'vebeen to the source. Captain's personal log, supplemental. While it isquite unusual for a starship to return to Earth, we seem to be leftwith no other choice. I have apprised the remaining bridge crew of oursituation. Keeping me a prisoner here will not compel me to discussanything with you. Q You sure? How about that, Data? He won't even let you talk. Data, you're here to learn about the human condition and thereis no better way of doing that than by embracing Shakespeare. But youmust discover it through your own performance, not by imitating others. Then it is a signal from Commander Riker. Ingenious. Heselected a signal we'd recognise but one the Ferengi would dismiss asstatic. Can you decode it? I don't care what you believe! You know what happened. You or I could learn to live with that disability, but not Worf. His life ended when those containers fell on him. We don't have to agree with it, we don't have to understand it, but we do have to respect his beliefs. Lieutenant, please receive our guest. You admire him. Of course. You have the Bridge, Number One. I want a Security team stationed outside Sickbay, Mister Worf. Oh. I see. Data, call medics. You said there is no cure for Iverson's. Ihat, this place you come from, is it a cultural archive ofyour species? Criminal record? Weapons report, Lieutenant. Medical Lab on main viewer. Let's use this calm. Understood. P2 I'm on my way. What do you propose? Counsellor? Q would never bother with contracts. To Captain Jean-Luc Picard, stardate 41148 No, we've learned the Q do not admire us. The Q has muddledyour mind. Exactly. It would seem the Howard women have exceptionally vigorouslibidos. Mister Worf, contact Ambassador Alkar. I need to speak withhim. Anna, we will get out of here. It's not going to be easy, butwe need to work together. Commander Data, this is Chief Investigator Krag. Commander, bytaking testimony from the away team and from witnesses provided by theInvestigator, would it be possible to programme the Holodeck torecreate what happened on the science station? Well, Robert and I, we. Perhaps it's time to change all that. Don't touch him. Location, Paris, Cafe des Artistes, as it appeared twenty twoyears ago. April the ninth, fifteen hundred hours, three o'clock. Warmspring day. So what happened down there? He is not for sale. Commander Data is, um, is, um In the Neutral Zone? I want some better options. Data, Geordi, take Doctor Rabal andbegin an analysis of the rift. We need to find some way to get theFleming out of there. Second Officer's log, stardate 47312.1. Our newsensor readings have greatly improved our understanding of the rift. However, we have been unable to find any way to counteract it. Well that's fine, but where's Commander Riker? However, I have, I believe, turned up some new information,that, if nothing else, raises a whole new set of mysteries and I hopethat we can discuss them here together. We'll keep you advised, Doctor. Picard out. Let's be very observant. Even the mostinsignificant image could be a very important symbol. Have they been delayed? That is his special nature. He learned the lessons of humanitywell. Q Helm, change course for the Argaya system, maximum warp. Gul Evek assured me that they had stopped that practice. Yes, of course. Why not. So it would seem. Q You've been talking about it for days. Shore leave for thecrew. That will be all, Mister Data. Was that it? Is that the other choice? P2 Ensign, take us to warp seven point two one. Dixon Hill. Professor, you are a computer simulation. Yes, but I wouldn't want to inflict it on someone else. Make it so. Well, I'd hoped to meet your new friend, Ronin. Pass my congratulations to the rest of your team. Computer, run Manua programme one, time code, fourteen threeeight. You've both seen the message about the plague? On screen. What about him? We are moving to intercept. Maintain your course and power. Position report. Counsellor? What's your situation? You have your orders, Commander. And I expect you to followthem. Q Describe it. Acamarians? Then that would suggest the Gatherers. Good morning. Number One, assemble the rest of your away team. Prepare forimmediate rescue operations. I refuse to let arithmetic decide questions like that. Did youlearn anything about the relationship between that and the Edo? Why arethey so certain it's a god? What's happened to your mind, Doctor? The search for knowledgeis always our primary mission. I'm sorry, I really am too busy for thiskind of nonsense. Do I have to call Security to force you to report tothe Sickbay? Is it? How so? Put it on main viewer. Identification? Report. RO I spell knife with an N. But then, I never could spell. No, please, Counsellor, I would very much like to hear yourthoughts. First of all, and I would like you to be absolutelystraightforward with me. How would you evaluate me as an officer? Do you want someone to accompany you? Well done. I'm going to be fine. I just need to get my breath. Override. You could tell them that in order to get past the check points,they're shipping the components for these weapons through thirdparties, and then we could put together a convoy and send it toward theDemilitarised Zone. RO I don't understand what you're trying to say. Counsellor? Let's try turning up the volume. Increase the intensity, MisterData. Au revoir, Natasha. The gathering is concluded. You're excused, crewman. Well, now you do. We may not have five hours and twenty minutes. I'm aware ofthat. How can we slow them down? But what if you're wrong? You saw what happened on the Lantree. I was wondering, Mister La Forge. What's our engineefficiency status? Hold for orders. Mister Data? Engage. Welcome aboard. But it didn't end there. Number One, will you join me in the Ready room? Leave it to Robert to find the best cook in France, then marryher. And I will use whatever force is necessary to prevent you fromtaking that action, Captain. Tasha, no. So, four billion years ago someone scattered this geneticmaterial into the primordial soup of at least nineteen differentplanets across the galaxy? Explain. Jake! Did we? Counsellor, I think it's time you took me to meetMister Conor. Which, for a few hours, should provide the emotional controlyou need. In that time, you can meet with the Legarans and conclude thetreaty. Oh, yes, it is. What went wrong this time? We may yet prevail. That's a conceit, but it's a healthy one. Iwonder if the Emperor Honorious, watching the Visigoths coming over theseventh hill, truly realised that the Roman Empire was about to fall. This is just another page in history, isn't it? Will this be the end ofour civilisation? Turn the page. Agreed. Options? I suggest you are now having second thoughts it. You areconsidering that if you conduct a fair trial, which was your promise,you may lose. Q Peace and long life. Here we have Environmental and Engineering stations, missionoperations, and the two principal science stations. Acknowledged. Commander Riker will conduct a manual docking. Picard out. Mister Worf, please accompany him. Is there anything we can do to stop it? Hold your positions. Take no action. Is there any possibility she could survive? It's quite difficult. The anguish of the man, the despairpouring out of him, all those feelings, the regrets. I can't stop them. By sanctioning their false beliefs? You acted in good conscience, Doctor. I don't see what else youcould have done. I find that it helps me think, but the real surprise is I enjoyit so much. Come. I've never heard of anyone that didn't love a good mystery. Mister Worf, open a channel. I've lost three plasma relays on the disruptors. Auxiliarypower is, is not available. Nothing. No explosion. On screen. Gowron. This is an unexpected pleasure. It breaks my heart to look at him. Are you all right? That was a wise choice, Ensign. It probably saved you fromanother court martial. Have you briefed Admiral Kennelly since wereturned from the surface? RO Which is very likely why they chose this moon for their base ofoperations. Tell me. Damage? I can't do that. Ensign, return to synchronous orbit. Picard to Commander Riker. Bridge to Lieutenant Worf,acknowledge. I'm sure I find them perfectly pleasant Let him come aboard. I'll see him in here. Receptacles? When we get wherever we're going, Idon't want Mister Data beaming off the Bridge. Our sensor array is useless. We must find some other way oflocating him. Make it so. Thought? Have they crossed the border? The Enterprise could be there in a fraction of the time, andstill be back in time for the rendezvous. Mister La Forge? Splendid. The Enterprise went through a wormhole, Doctor. It seems theentire crew was unconscious for approximately thirty seconds. Korgano? Who is that? I'll inform Commander La Forge. Picard to Engineering. Take us in, Ensign. One quarter impulse. We haven't completed our analysis of thebomb debris. Doctor Crusher is still studying the remains of the twomen killed in the explosion. We need more time. Believe me, Beverly, there was only one decision. So it would seem. Or he may have nothing to do with it at all. What? Why? Shuttle three to Enterprise. Telemetry link enabled. This is becoming very tiresome. Ensign, engage. Now, we understand that DaiMon Solok runs cargo there from timeto time. Have you any objection? How long until the Enterprise-C enters therift? Continue phaser fire. There were stories of prisoners taken back to Romulus, butthese were only rumours. Geordi, get us back to Aldea. Warp nine. Where is it now, Mister Data? Why did you leave the Earth and come to a brand new planet whenyou did? Caused by? I see. We have completed our survey on the surface. Analysing thatdata will keep us busy for a while. For what purpose? No, please, come in. I'm delighted. Put it on the viewer. Amused? Welcome aboard, Number One. Now, Lieutenant, conduct theCommander to Sickbay. Ambassador Byleth, this is Commander William Riker, my FirstOffice, from the planet Earth. He has been assigned to you. Excuse us. Take us out of warp. Director, we will comply with your request to remove the colonyfrom Tau Cygna Five, but we need time. This is the Enterprise. With all this interference it isdifficult to copy your transmission. If you all talk at once it isalmost impossible. Now, please say again. What is your situation? The fact of the matter is, we are dealingwith a potential breakdown of the main computer. They're blocking her sensitivity. They're stopping her fromseeing the truth. Counsellor? Captain Riker. it's good to see you have recovered. You want to fight with me? Is that it? A challenge? Mister La Forge, prepare for saucer separation. Yes sleep. Sleep. Granted, but I'm beginning to suspect that Commander Data isrefusing to co-operate because he believes he is acting in the bestinterests of the Enterprise. Sounds perfect. Mister La Forge, how long before the baryonsweep begins on the Enterprise? From your Starfleet records. My own counterpart. The captain's final message, praising hiscrew. Mister Worf, do you see any survivors? Ensign Crusher, are you able to return to duty? On screen. Mister Data, come with me. Immediately. On my way. Try hailing it. I'll notify Doctor Moseley. Good luck, Geordi. Thank you, Mister Data. Well, if he must, but I fail to understand how a five footandroid with heuristic learning systems and the strength of a ten mencan be called a child. Increase to warp nine. How long, Mister Worf? Your support is appreciated, Counsellor. You have been in contact with Admiral Kennelly during thismission? RO Is this your doing, Q? Q Marta Batanides. I advise you to listen closely for I will not say this again. Icame to Risa for a holiday, nothing more. I have no knowledge of thiswoman of whom you speak, nor have I laid eyes on any disc. No, no, no. I wouldn't want to sacrifice the safety of theship. And now we're supplying the devices with the energy to kill us. Lieutenant, are you recommending we fight a life form that cando all those things? I'd like to hear your advice. I knew that I could count on you. RO Very good, Data. But shut down the other holodecks until you'refinished, just to be on the safe side. Under these circumstances, Number One, I think that would beinappropriate. Second officer's log, Stardate 43611.6. Programmingof the holodeck has taken eighteen hours eleven minutes, and is nowcomplete. All participants have entered their depositions. Technicalschematics and complete records from the lab's ground computers, aswell as Doctor Apgar's personal logs, have been included. Therecreations will have a nominal eight point seven percent margin oferror. Mister Data? Give me a visual. Options? Your Honour. Jono, let me show you what I do when I get those feelings. Comeon. What? Of course we did. But in the end we may have proved just asdangerous to that colony as any core fragment could ever have been. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. It will not serve you here. Q Proceed. Thank you, Mister La Forge. Sometimes, Riker, the best way to win a fight is not to bethere. On screen. Explain your illegal presence in the Neutral Zone. That is, ironically, what this is about. By our standards, thecustoms here, their code of honour, is the same kind of pompous,strutting charades that endangered our own species a few centuries ago. We evolved out of it because no one else imposed their own. I'm sorry,this is becoming a speech. No, we are not. We can cure many diseases and we can repairinjuries, we can even extend life. But for all our knowledge, all ouradvances, we are just as mortal as you are. We're just as powerless toprevent the inevitable. Yes, thank you, dear. Ah, Counsellor Troi. Will you allow me to do the introductions? This is Premier Bhavani of Barzan. Counsellor Deanna Troi. Beverly, make sure that your tricorder iskeeping a precise map of the route. We could very easily get lost inhere. I'm afraid not, though I do admit to a certain trepidation. Your company is much appreciated. Welcome. I'm Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of the Enterprise. Beam them back immediately. Chief. I wanted to talk to you. Noted, Mister Data. I'm beaming you up. Well, it's your decision, Chancellor. But I must say, I regretthat I won't have the opportunity of knowing your people better. Yes, of course. Come in, Number One. Well, we are due at Starbase six two one tomorrow morning, butwe could delay for a few days. Yes, I'm sure we could find the time. Very good. Dismissed. Lieutenant, could I have a word with youfor a moment? A Federation starship? Come and have supper tonight, my friend. I'll make somevegetable stew. Let's talk about building our own condenser. That's an excellent idea, Counsellor. You have the Bridge,Number One. Can we talk to him? Is someone there? Who's there? Mister Barclay? I hope that by the end of this matter, you will no longer lookat me as an adversary. My family. Well, our roots in Western Europe goback to the time of Charlemagne. The technique of a desperate man. Meaning? How long can we expect it to last? I'm sorry, I don't understand. I have a good idea. And the three of you speak for him? Take us in. Thank you. I'd like to talk to you for a moment about my futureon the Enterprise. You hoped this would happen, didn't you? You knew there was adangerous creature on this planet and you knew from the tale of Darmokthat a danger shared might sometimes bring two people together. Darmokand Jalad at Tanagra. You and me, here, at El-Adrel. Adjust course to intercept. Warp seven. Remembrance and regrets, they too are a part of friendship. Are you suggesting that we're in some kind of laboratory? I agree it would be difficult, but not impossible. Very well. I accept. Captain's log, supplemental. K'mpec, who ruled theKlingon Empire longer than anyone in history, is dead. We await thearrival of Duras and Gowron, rivals for the leadership of the HighCouncil. I've just received new orders from Starfleet. We'll discuss itin the Observation lounge. Mister Data, Mister Worf. Admiral Brand. What can I do for you? We know how you move back and forth through time. My crew havereturned to the twenty fourth century to destroy your transport site onDevidia Two. Come on. Alright, don't worry, we'll get you out of here. Enterprise, this is the Captain. Two to beam up. Enterprise? Enterprise, come in. Data? Lieutenant Yar? But at what cost, Number One? And the away team? I see. Mister Worf, we're all doing the best we can in a difficultsituation. Think nothing more of it. An extremely large storm system overthe Caldos colony. Lieutenant, take a security team to holodeck three. DisconnectMister Barclay from the computer. Frankly, I find it hard to believe. Every ship that enters theDemilitarised Zone is being searched. RO I can assure you, Ambassador, the Federation would neverinterfere in the internal affairs of the Empire. We'll meet you on the Enterprise. Picard out. Keep her under guard. Fully enlarge. Seventy five years is a long time. If you would care to studysome technical schematics or And you, sir? We can't use the replicator? No, they could fire until their lasers ran dry and theywouldn't hurt the Enterprise. My predicament is what to do with you. I beg your pardon. I realise that. Oh, yes. So once again, thank you for your help. Oh, I will besure to mention your name to Gowron when I speak to him. Meet me in Transporter room two. We're going down to thesurface. That's better. On screen. I'll send an away team, Prime Minister. Picard out. CounsellorTroi, Commander Data, Mister Worf, you will accompany me to the planet. Picard here. But Data can understand you. Use him. Let him explain yourwords. Beverly, something's happened to me. I'mnot sure Q Drop to one quarter impulse, Ensign. The Lysians have identified CommanderMacDuff as a Satarran, an alien race that's been at war with theLysians for decades. I have conveyed our deepest regrets to the Lysiansover the tragedy of their lost ship and crew. In plain English, you're saying the dilithium is causing thegeological catastrophe. It's right. I'm fine. What is this all about? Mister Data? No, no, we're not gods. I have forty crewmembers on board the Hathaway. Go on. Constitution class. You are not alive. As I said before, you are only Also, please tell him that I am immensely gratified that he isprospering so well. A tribute to his skilled leadership. Hmm. Well, we should get some sleep. Number One, keep them out of my way. The question is, how do we get out? Mister Data, could youreconfigure the sensors to detect these anomalies? There was a teacher of mine at the Academy who had beenconfined to a wheelchair since birth. She was a woman Doctor, Computer, where is Admiral Riker? Are you saying that I caused the anomaly, and that the anomalysomehow disrupted the beginnings of life on Earth? Q I just got a message from Starfleet command. Make it so. Now, if you have course and speed laid in. Ben Maxwell? But he's one of Starfleet's finest captains. Hemust have had provocation. Last month. Just kicked in without any warning. Don't you tell me what to do! I appreciate that, Number One. What are his chances? Engage. Tryla Scott. It's said you made Captain faster than anyone inStarfleet history, present company included. Are you that good? Thank you. So, Q, I thought you told me that I was dead. Now it seems thatI'm alive. Q Wesley, you will be missed. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Do they know of our Prime Directive? Soon we'll both be home. First officer's log, supplemental. On the orders ofCaptain Picard, we have returned to the vicinity of the energy patterncloud. I am personally convinced that something from this cloud nowshares the Captain's mind. But there seems to be nothing we can do, atleast within regulations. Magnify. Times twenty. Try to wake him, again. We've received a distress call. We're changing course tointercept. Captain's log, stardate 44215.2. The Enterprise hasbypassed its scheduled archaeologicalsurvey of Camus Two in response to a distress call from the Federationfreighter Arcos, which has assumed an emergency orbit around TurkanaFour, birthplace of our late comrade, Tasha Yar. Mister Worf, will you man your station. The danger is minimal, Number One. Chorgan is unlikely to doanything rash with the Enterprise's phasers trained on his ship. In the meantime, I would like to meet with this Ronin. Lieutenant, have you launched the probe? Acknowledged. Yes, sir. I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the United Federation ofPlanets. We do not intend transgression of That being first, at any cost, is not always the point. MisterData, while we await repairs, I want Life Sciences and Engineering tocontinue collecting information on the alien. And query the Vega Nineprobe, long range sensors. Go ahead, Data. Worf, target phasers. Yes, what is it, Ensign? I wouldn't presume to speak for her. Computer, resume programme. Mister La Forge, you know better than anyone there's noguarantee this will work. If it fails Report. Maybe if we put some distance between us, that might weaken it. Not that I'm growing tired of hearing your most intimate thoughts. Doctor, we may have a solution. We have a sample of your normalDNA to use as a filter in the transporter. We think that we can beamyou aboard while filtering out any of the genetic problems caused bythe disease. What is it? JR Belay that order, Doctor. No, more a curiosity. For the past few hours we've beentracking faint energy readings in an attempt to locate the source. It'slike following a trail of bread crumbs. The pathfinder lead here andstopped, which is what I knew would interest you. Profit. This is all about profit. Well, it certainly hasn't been abandoned. Let's just get that uncaught, shall we? There's everyindication he's served competently in Starfleet for years. His ratingsaboard the Zhukov were satisfactory. In fact I recall Captain Gleasonspeaking quite highly of him before his transfer. If we all die, here, now, you will not be able to gloat. Youwanted to frighten us. We're frightened. You wanted to show us that wewere inadequate. For the moment, I grant that. You wanted me to say Ineed you. I need you! No, not such a wonderful husband. I spend my spare timecharting the stars. I disappear for days at a time exploring thecountryside. My life is very much as it was. Old habits. I think we shall find we have much in common. Status reports? No. No, let's help all of us. Generalquarters. Red Alert. What sort of activity? Who is Pardek? No, it is not. Fine. I hope they find you as tasty as they did their pastassociates. Thank you, Doctor Crusher, we appreciate your time. You areexcused now. Mister Worf, will you bring in the next person? Come. Breathable air. No life forms that might be dangerous. I thinkwe could risk a minimal away team, Number One. Can we still beam the affected sections out into space? Very good. May I activate the viewer? You know, we could be going about this all the wrong way. Thisis a very ritualistic culture based on symbol and myth. Perhaps weshould try to confront them on those terms. If I could somehowincorporate myself in their ritual, then perhaps Masaka would listen tome. It is, Number One. Go to yellow alert. Shields up. Doctor? You're not attending the dinner with the rest of usthis evening? Number One, I have the distinct impression that we're beingtoyed with. Take us back to Rana Four. The hearings on Simon Tarses will stop. If necessary, I will goto Starfleet Command. No, but her inertia will carry the Stargazer along with us. Ordid you sleep through the Academy lecture on conservation of tractorbeam power? It's worth a look. We'll continue our survey along the way. Doctor? The word trust just isn't in your vocabulary, is it. Good try,nine out of ten for effort. Then I declare the treaty in abeyance, Picard to Commander Riker. Kelsey, perhaps we can work out a deal. Your grandmother was a doctor? Put it on screen. The other two Enterprises, they're on theirway. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have found our Titania. Don'tyou agree? The men you helped rescue are safe. Proconsul M'ret is deeplygrateful for your help. You'll be taken to the nearest starbase and held responsiblefor the attack on the Enterprise, and possibly the deaths of eleventhousand people. Number One, did you get them off? If there's a possibility of getting more from him, I'd like youto pursue it. But we need to continue our investigation. We'll enterthe Black Cluster at oh seven hundred hours tomorrow morning. Dismissed. Mister Data? What precipitated the attack? We're acquainted with the wormhole phenomenon, but this? Thisappears quite different. What do your sensors indicate? Vash, damn it, it's me! We're all sympathetic, Lieutenant. Our civilian population inthe Demilitarised Zone is in a very difficult situation, but evensympathy has to end at some point. The peace treaty isn't just a pieceof paper. If the Maquis force us into a war with Cardassia, it couldmean hundreds of thousands of lives. Two years ago, Starfleet wouldnever have tapped you for this mission. They must have a lot ofconfidence in you now. RO The question is, for what? So he did, but don't depend too much on any single viewpoint Q Ambassador! Ensign, verify our position. As you wish. A short goodbye. Computer, save the programme ofthe character Moriarty, and then discontinue. Enough. Q, what exactly is going on. Q No harm done. It's going to take at least a couple of hours tocharge this cell. Then as soon as it's done, we should get it over tothe shuttle immediately. This cell casing is already beginning to breakdown. Anna, we are going to get out of here. Yes. It was not necessary to abduct us. We'll first bring you up to date on a little adventure we hadon our way here, Commander. Then we'll talk. Welcome aboard. Cancel. We'll deal with that later. I'm on my way. I want him kept under constant surveillance. Very well. How do I do that? Commander La Forge, Mister Worf, come with me. Number One, youhave the Bridge. The Borg ship will enter orbit in one hour. You'll soon be headed home. We'll beam him down and then we'll take upa position in the star's chromosphere. The interference will hide usfrom their sensors. Granted. I had no idea you were a member of the Archaeology Council. Youare a member, aren't you? You see, Lal, the Admiral is concerned that you need moreguidance than your father can provide here on the Enterprise. A member of my crew was being held unjustly. I stand by mydecision. Mister Remmick, you have talked to every member of this ship. I think you've had enough time to find out whatever it is you'relooking for. The memory is five years old now, but it's still inside me. Out with what? What do you mean, possible? Yes. He's missing. So, you kept the name. Considerably. It appears the Ferengi have us right where theywant us. In their sights. Are you searching all frequencies? Any signof any kind of messages? Absolutely not. This vaccine sample is a gift of life and weare honoured at receiving it. Would you do us the additional honour ofnow letting us entertain you? On screen. Another white dwarf star. Forty five years ago he made the wrong decision. He wanted tocome here to somehow right it, to atone for what he did. Now all he cando is to give himself up to you. He brought this retribution onhimself. That's because He is here. You wanted to see me, Doctor? Troi, are you all right? We understand what you are saying. We will leave you. We willsend you home. So there are limits to her power. Beverly, what the hell is this? Reassemble in Engineering. I see. I assume this is not a time to confront him about what happenedto his ship. Oh, I'm sure. Am I authorised to enter the Neutral Zone? I'll accept the judgement of history. They claim that sector of space where Beta Stromgren islocated. Go ahead. Anyone in particular? Some planet? What are you doing here? Cat food? Mister Data? Life form? Proceed. Maybe it was all part of the Bynar's programming. But you know,Number One, some relationships just can't work. Stellar Cartography. Yes, it has. Number One, take a security team up to deck two. Try and breakthrough from below. Commander? I need your help. I must find Spock. Don't you worry. I won't. Q Incroyable! Vous etes Parisienne? I couldn't tell you. Well, any woman who can beat a Ferengi at his own game bearswatching. Computer, estimated arrival time at the Neutral Zone? Probably conquered. I doubt there are many oak trees on Tagus. No, I think this issupposed to be Earth, somewhere round about the twelfth century. Andthis is England, or to be more precise, Sherwood Forest. Or at leastQ's recreation of it. You'll agree that this is a fairly routine mapping mission? I'm not going anywhere to watch anything. JR Why have you fired on us? Transport. This may be a littletricky. I would like you to handle it. LAFORGE Hail them. We will give you more on this as ourunderstanding increases. The Enterprise will stay at full alert untilthe crisis is over. Go ahead. We know about the transporter malfunction and that you areholding Ambassador T'Pel. Q, I do not believe that even you are capable of such an act. Q What do we know about that pulsar? Scanning and recording as we go. Go ahead, Commander. Can you do that? Agreed. They might think they don't need as much of theircrew to hold the ship. We could use the element of surprise to give usa tactical advantage. JR That's right, you should. If the weather pattern doesn't change, rationing will not beenough. We'll run out of water. Commander, we have made some progress here. Let's not ruin thatwith unnecessary posturing. Quite right, Prime Minister. Enterprise, prepare to beam theaway team back. Data, is this yours? Anything? As do I. I would be willing to consider releasing Lal and Datato you so that he may continue his work with her. On screen. What happened, Deanna? Will, that is just not good enough. I don't know. Picard here. Well, a great deal actually. My father was a strong believer inpassing on the traditions and history of the family. Ask for her? Well, how did you end up on Camor? It's an unlikely place for awoman and child. I will gladly share the results of our exploration with all thedelegates. Goodnight. Take us out of warp, Ensign. How can two grown men share the same childhood experiences? Itjust doesn't make any sense. 2 There'll be no more punishment on this ship. Now, do yourduties and I'll see to it that we complete our mission and get ourpayment. You have my word as a Starfleet officer that I will not. Then give me a Level One diagnostic of any onboard sensors, andrun a manual sweep of any anomalous airborne or electromagneticreadings. I want some answers. Frankly, I think my time would be best served carrying out theduties and responsibilities of a Starfleet Captain. In one sense, Korgano is Masaka's nemesis. Whatever this symbolrepresents, it could be for us a means to control her. Now, if anyonehas a better idea, I'd be happy to entertain it. Proceed. They could be cloaked, or otherwise shielded. Mister Crusher,bring us in well clear of the planet's three moons. Number One, we're wasting our energy tryingto escape. It only weakens us. Helm, set a course for the center of thevortex. Mister La Forge, on my command, I want all the power you canmuster. This tranquilliser should keep himunconscious for another seven hours. What have you found out? Doctor, there is no one on this ship with more knowledge of theCrystalline Entity than Commander Data. He originated on Omicron Theta.  I know that part. RO Then let her do it, and feel free to do yours. Ship's resourcesare your responsibility. I've always had absolute confidence in yourjudgment. It could be worse. Unseal the doors. I'm sorry, I can't tell you that yet. Data. Insurance. Romulan battle cruisers have been detected near oneof our border posts. It seems, DoctorPICARD I need more. This is the Enterprise. We are moving to intercept twoCardassian warships. Maintain your present course and speed. Doctor, stop the transmission. That is an order. Doctor Marr,do you hear me? Lantree, this is Picard of the Enterprise. What is thenature of your emergency? Now stop! I will not allow posturing and bigotry to destroythis meeting. Now please, sit down. Now, Commander Riker has asked thatyourlaboratories be inspected for stolen tissue samples, and I understandhis concern. We may have to transport all your equipment here, to theEnterprise. Engage. You may request additional team members, but in the bestinterest of this investigation, I think you should work with CommanderData. Worf, this is the Captain. Ready photon torpedoes. BURKE I have a business proposition to discuss. Good luck, Number One. Captain. Thank you. I wish, I wish time would have allowed me to knowyou better. Well, Admiral, quite a little surprise you've pulled on us. Picard to Bridge, abort immediately. Isn't she. Data, there might come some time in the future when she wouldfind out anyway. Another accident, perhaps. Maybe it would be easierfor her if she learned the truth from you. No, wait. Stop. There was someone else in the shuttlecraft withme. The pilot, he's injured. He needs your help. Nevertheless, sir, I'm not prepared to leave until your affairsare completed. Then we have one thing in common. Do you think that Orta wouldcooperate with us to determine the truth here? RO On the contrary, all too often. My answer is still no. My lecture will have to stand on itsown. Now, will you please leave my ship. Q But you won't. Beverly, you know I loathe vacations. Wesley? It's good to have you back again. Divert all power to shields! Something is blocking communication both If that's true, then help me. We want thesame thing. We both want the Enterprise to be safe. But there is apiece of information I don't have. What is it? P2 Prove to the court that I am sentient. The isolinear chips were definitelyaltered? Governor, you speak as if we are enemies, not allies. What do they want with the Enterprise? What's their purpose? To all Starfleet personnel, this is theCaptain. It is my sad duty to inform you that a member of the crew,Ensign Sito Jaxa Picard out. Yes, it concerns DaiMon Bok. Status, Number One. Destroyed themselves, Data? Remarkable. Picard here. Yes, you can do that, but you haven't. I suspect you shook thisship in order toget my attention. Well now you have it. What is it you want? There are four lights! Very well. But regardless of this planet's immediate situation,we must observe the Prime Directive. I want to minimise the risk ofcontact with the inhabitants. You will go alone, Mister Worf, and Iwant to have you surgically altered so that you could pass as aBoraalan. Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. How soon can you do that? In what way? Not to worry, Everything is going to be fine. Now, this isgoing to hurt a bit. Very well. Oh, one thing, Number One. Starfleet will benotifying Carmen Davila's family of her death and returning herpersonal effects. Would you care to enclose a letter? That's it. The way into our world. Speaking of disorientation, are you all right? Answer for them? Why? I intend to make certain that you answer for what you have done. Picard here. He said that he was down there recently. He seemed confidentthat it could be done safely. Captain, perhaps it would be best if we discussed this Make it so, Mister Crusher. Thrusters only. Mister Data? Doctor Clark, we are barely able maintain communication withyou. Can you boost the level of your power source? Forgive me, Admiral, I thought you were sent here to form anopinion, not to justify one. Data, you were going to show us something. What if we modified the main deflector to emit an inversetachyon pulse. That might be able to scan beyond the subspace barrier. That might give us some idea of what the interior of this thing lookslike. Is it possible to re-adjust the targeting sequence? Will, what the hell are you still doing here? Yes, Lieutenant. Their lives are in danger and they're beaming over cargo? Number One, I don't understand these people. Scan for lifeforms. Bring us out of warp, Ensign. No. What I didn't put in the report was that at the end he gave mea choice between a life of comfort or more torture. All I had to do wasto say that I could see five lights, when in fact, there were onlyfour. Computer, stop playback. Change the clarinet to an oboe. Continue recording. Backup generators. Mister Worf, would you escort our guest tothe transporter room? I would like the two of you to piece together a picture of hislast few days. We can search it twice as fast if we separate. Oh? How long will it take to compile the data? If the news were encouraging, I assume youwould not be here. I thought it would make you feel better. Well, I already like his choice in wives. I never thanked youfor your correspondence. It made me feel like part of the family. I didn't know that. If he'd told me I would have withdrawn. I'msorry, but there's nothing I can do to bring him back. Well, we will gladly explore the possibility of it with you,Mister Conor. Would you like to come aboard to discuss it? Demons of Air and Darkness, indeed. On viewer. We must select an officer to replace Data at Ops. Recommendations? He's not a DaiMon. He was stripped of command. And what exactly is Ansata policy with regard to hostages? No. But I must find some way to prevent it that you understand. Yes, we've had a ship-wide shutdown. We've lost attitudecontrol and most systems are offline. Be specific. Open a channel. It was a nice place to visit, Number One, but I wouldn't wantto die there. Magnify, Mister Worf. Hardly an inviting planet, even for aresearch establishment. That's not an order. You can get to it later. I don't want todisrupt your recreation. The Captain's log, perhaps? Commander, you must have been playing since you were young. Iplayed the piano for a while when I was small, but I didn't put in thepractice you must have. Let me try to explain. I am by no means embarrassed by yourpresence here. On the contrary. My orders are to maintain radio silenceuntil we've completed the mission. Is he all right? Thank you, Lieutenant. Data? Take us in, Chief. We can't afford to wait any longer. Begin the graviton pulse. when the walls fell. First Officer's log, stardate 45048.8. Our attemptto transport Captain Picard back to the ship has failed. My options arenarrowing and my patience is all but gone. Release the Stargazer from the tractor beam, Number One. Initiate full check, all systems. The reception seems to be going well. An impostor running my ship. 2 Robert, why didn't you inform us? Then that would explain why they abandoned it. But if there'sno one still living there, how were we brought inside? Is it something that the shields can't handle? Stand by. Wait for my order, Number One. Mister Data, run a full systems diagnostic. Let me go! I hope you will plan on remaining on board for a while. Thereis still much that we need to understand about what has happened toyou. Sarek! I've come a long way to see you. You too, Doctor. I have business with the Commander. It was a pleasure to serve with you, Mister Barclay. A boy. At the same time we were facing destruction, this smallmiracle was taking place. Welcome aboard. Take us to impulse power. Vorin, isn't it? Scan for life signs. Stand by. Perhaps you had tell me as much as possible prior to hisarrival, Number One. We don't have anything to do. None of the games are working. A cloaking device? If I weren't travelling through time I would never haverealized that the anomaly in the Neutral Zone appeared there in thepast as well. Assuming that's an important piece of a larger puzzle, myability to shift through time may be the key to understanding what'sgoing on. Well, bon voyage, Mister Scott. Are you all right? Go. Return to your own time. There's nothing for you here. Cease Red Alert. Let it through. RO I felt guilty before he died> Having feelings like thatfor my best friend's wife. And then later, after the accident, Ipromised myself that I would never tell you know how I felt. It wouldbe like betraying my friend Perhaps I should have filled your head with trivial concerns. Games and toys and clothes. As Chief Security Officer, you will accompany me to the nexttransition proceeding. It's a risky game you're playing, coming here. Next time we'llbe ready for you. Why don't we settle this now? There will be no bloodshed. RO Cancel message. Is this what he's looking for? Put us in a standard orbit above those coordinates. Analysis, Mister Worf. Sickbay, this is the captain. Well, Commander Riker is a skilled diplomat, with wideexperience in inter-species contact. Repeat the hail all channels. You see, they have no way ofknowing how accurate our sensors are. Put on your best poker face,Number One. Open a frequency. Commander Tomalak. It would appear ouraway team has rescued a second man from your one man ship. We'repreparing to beam them to the Enterprise. After which, of course, wewill return the survivor to you. But you believe he might have gone there to see Pardek? Good. Contact Commander Riker on Betazed. Good. Once again, welcome on board, Captain. So our task is to find the ship, and tell the Klingons they'reno longer at war. And if I hand you over to Debin, then it's the same thing. Set course for the next closest station. Destroy it. At any cost. When I was on the Stargazer, weconducted extensive tests using theta band carrier waves. One of thereasons I was selected for this mission is my familiarity with themethods used for generating them. Mister Worf, your presence here isobvious. Doctor, your job will be to locate and destroy any biotoxinswe may find. As a matter of fact Does that custom extend also to brutalising this surrogate son? Very well. Proceed. Mister Data? Any sign of life? You tell me. Are you strong enough to refuse to use that power. Not if you were to help me. If that's the good news, what's the bad news? Number One, I think you had better see who's at home. Agreed. Under the circumstances, I think there is only onedecision. I will not stand by while half of my crew is slaughtered. He would not have injured you. Do you recognise this, the stunsetting? Q I don't think he wants either of us to talk to him right now. Picard to La Forge. I am Jean-Luc Picard, of the Federation Starship, USSEnterprise. Why have you attacked my vessel? We've heard that we may find it rather interesting. Personal log, Commander William Riker. Stardate41153.7. The Hood has dropped me off at Farpoint Station, where Iawait the arrival of the new USS Enterprise to which I have beenassigned as First Officer. Meanwhile I have been asked to visit theFarpoint Administrator's Office, in the old city. Good for you, Uncle. You know what? I once wrote a report aboutstarships when I was about your age. When she comes aboard take her into custody. RO I think it would be only fair. But let's allow her the moment. Picard to Lieutenant Worf. Now, I think that we should just forget about this and enjoyout evening. You have a better one? Well done, everyone . Ensign, put us back on course for theMoselina system. Warp four as soon as we're clear of the debris field. Doctor, tell me. How much time did Data andGraves spend together? Deanna, Doctor Crusher's become concerned that yourparacortical readings have become erratic. You were right not to try. Once you became accustomed to thatpower, Number One. We both fell down. Let's go. Analysis. Mister Data. Maybe they did. Set coordinates for main Bridge. Portforward for me and aft for you. Gul Macet, will you join me on the Bridge? Well, it's unusual to fly on sensors alone in this type ofmanoeuvre. The pilot relies on visual clues from the other ships tomaintain formation. Enterprise to Ambassador Alkar. Respond, sir. Very well. Mister Data, Mister Worf, I want you to go along. See if you can to re-establish control of the ship without damaging thenodes. If the ship is truly an emerging intelligence, then we have aresponsibility to treat it with the same respect as any other being. Transporter room two, prepare to energise. How do you suggest we proceed? Will, don't leave! We have to stay here and find what iscausing the temporal anomaly. Granted, but how could he perceive his mother visually as ifshe were standing there in the room? It will need to be. Tomorrow I'll be addressing some of thegreatest scientific minds in the Federation. Switzer,Klarc-Tarn-Droth, McFarland. Giants in the field of archaeology. Compared to them I'm just an enthusiastic amateur. Ensign, bring the ship about. Let's take alook at Mister Worf's distortion. Open hailing frequencies. Did your scans provide any insights into these comas? Yes, Ensign. I'm sorry. This mission can't be delayed. If you want topostpone the work? All right, Lieutenant, you just stay right there. Data, pleasego to Lieutenant Yar and take her down to Sickbay. Then do it. If you don't mind, there's something I'd like to say. You didn't say you could do that. Affirmative. Talk to it. Agreed. However, there are circumstances of which you may beunaware. The survivor has suffered a memory loss. He's thereforeill-equipped to defend himself against your accusations. I assume you have control of the computer. I am glad you are comfortable. I've come to seek your agreementto an Ornaran request. How is he? What do you think, Number One? Oh, she's fine, fine. The good news, however, is that the cease fire seems to beholding. I appreciate your motives, but his mother is dead. He mustlearn to live with that. Mister Crusher, take us out of here. As a matter of fact, it does. Q File Dixon Hill, private detective. Number One, my fencing partner's cancelledfor this afternoon. I was wondering if you wanted to join me? Velara Three base, do you copy? You've been offered the Melbourne. How can that be? The new friends went out into the desert together, where thegreat bull of heaven was killing men by the hundreds. Enkidu caught thebull by the tail. Gilgamesh struck it with his sword. Very well. We'll begin transporting the survivors on board immediately. Bridge out. That's not necessary. Go on. Override. No. No, no, no, no. Vulcan Security? Look, you are treating me as if I am an invalid. I do have afew years left in me yet. I do not want to be led around, and I do notwant to be patronised. Mister Worf, I think that you should consider analysing yournew guidance system. No. It's just that you are the fifth woman to ask me thatquestion this morning. All I require is to sit in the sun and read mybook. Alone. I think, Number One, we cannot assume anything. I'm sure your fellow Q remember you agreed to never trouble ourspecies again. Just as they're aware you failed to tempt a human tojoin you. Q Indeed he has. Would you look into it, Number One. What about the little ones, Brett, Alandra and er? Any particular reason? And into specific patterns of matter, just as our transportersdo. Mister Kolrami, may I speak with you in private? An escape pod? Then he couldn't have travelled very far. MisterData, are there any other signs of ships in this area? Go ahead, Commander. I have been fascinated looking into thehistory and traditions of your people, and I was very interested tolearn that your grandfather, Katowa, was the man who first led thegroup of Indians from Earth initially more than two hundred years ago. Hold your position until the Rutianmedics arrive. In my ready room. The seven people on that ship are our firstpriority. Is the probe ready for launch? An ancient trail along the Kabul River inthe Himalayas. It's a wonderful programme. Will, it would do you goodto have a little fresh holodeck air. Demonstration? It tried to kill us. Move it where? Grand. You're dismissed, Mister Data. Shuttles? No, sir. Are there any records of missing ships in this vicinity? Prepare to increase to warp two. One of our starships under your control? Mister Data to the Bridge, please. Lay in a course and prepare to engage at warp eight as soon aswe're on board. Forgive me, but it sounds as if with a great deal of hard workand courage, your ancestors changed this world all by themselves. I know they won't get very far. The boy was here. That's right. Now, when they give way, we shall fall. So you'vegot to get your crew out of here before that happens. Now, there is aladder along the wall of the shaft. You can climb up that until youcome to an open doorway. Yes, that may well be. But Wesley's one of our own. Let's do it. Yes? Mister Worf. Have you cancelled your leave? The seabed it may be only partiallyfossilised. It could still contain organic material. No, Corey, listen to me. This is a big mistake. Don't play him. Yes? Who the hell is it? I'm certain, Number One. I want you to stay close. Keep youreye on his every move. Have Beverly concoct some reason for giving hima full medical examination. We have sent down what we call an away team to make peacefulcontact here. Don't misunderstand me, Counsellor. Your mother is a beautifulperson, Well, perhaps what we most needed was a kick in ourcomplacency, to prepare us ready for what lies ahead. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Must be rewarding to you to repay others for all those years ofmisery. Are you certain? Doctor. Darmok. The ocean. Darmok on the ocean. Ametaphor? For being alone? Isolated? Darmok on the ocean. Hey, hey, Doctor. Now, stay awake. You've got to help me. Ineed your help. All right, now listen. Your patient has lost a greatdeal of blood from multiple lacerations. I'm curious, Mister Data. Why are you looking at all theseother cultures? Is there any way that we can persuade them to give back controlof the ship? Take us out of warp near that ship. I'm sure she is. Not necessarily, Doctor. Data's behaviour would seem to suggestwe did not. Why else would he be willing to sacrifice his career ratherthan tell the truth? Let me talk to him. Number One, I think we have an opportunityto end this siege. Will it survive? I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation StarshipEnterprise and I see no reason why I should answer to you. Cardassians have no claims in this sector. You shouldn't remember him like this. Prepare for emergency transport. Mister Barclay, respond at once! Shields up! Full reverse. Now! Counsellor, has the boy volunteered any further information?  For quite a while, Mister Tholl. I am perfectly willing toentertain the hypothesis that our captors are Romulans. But what would the Romulans want with you? Well, we'll watch this evidence, and we'll weigh itaccordingly. Well, maybe now would be a good time to start. Follow me,gentlemen. Mister Worf They wanted the best. That, according to all reports, is Riva. Mister Worf, maintain a lock on her signal once she's aboard. At the first sign of trouble I want to be able to bring her back. We're glad to be of help, Doctor. TheEnterprise will remain in orbit and continue to monitor your progress. Picard out. Denied. When we get another window in the storms. The crashsite? Counsellor, do you sense anything? Yes, I did. How much time will these adjustmentsrequire, Lieutenant? Arrogant? Biogenic weapons, for example. You could provide them withintelligence that would show that the Cardassians are, in fact,supplying their colonists with them. RO Brull, she's here, isn't she? Good guess. You're quicker than Starbase research. It took themhours to determine this was a distress beacon. How soon, Mister Data? I assume from your request for his transfer that you think he'snot, Commander. How much longer till we can access their logs? No, of course not, Number One. Please. You know, there some words I've known since I was a school boy. With the first link, the chain is forged. The first speech censured,the first thought forbidden, the first freedom denied, chains us allirrevocably. Those words were uttered by Judge Aaron Satie as wisdomand warning. The first time any man's freedom is trodden on, we're alldamaged. I fear that today Oh yes, I know. I'll get it seen to, Data. Shut that off. Freeze programme. Well, you were born Jeremiah on Galen Four. The colony wasdestroyed later, during a border skirmish. I don't want you to do anything that makes you uncomfortable. Leave Starfleet? How do we use the cloak to escape from the asteroid? Yes, of course. Comments. Where am I, Number One? She decided to leave. Doctor Crusher will monitor our responses. That is not in my power. But you are Borg. That would take us in the wrong direction. Our mission is to goforward, and it's just begun. Set velocity. Warp six, Mister La Forge. Well, whatever the intent that lies behind its process, I'm notgoing to permit this ship to be turned into an alien city. Mister LaForge, do you have any ideas? This would seem that this is Masaka'stemple. Until he does something more menacing, I see no reason why weshould prevent him from continuing his work. Are you all right? Good. Now end the demonstration. Small talk. I'm aware of the risks. But it is the only logical solution. What are you suggesting? What's the origin of this debris field? But you didn't. And that's human. We make mistakes. Geneticmanipulation or not, nobody's perfect. You mean where you wanted her to. Woven art? Recovered intact? I'm not senile, you know. This did happen. I was here, I wastalking to you, and then I was somewhere else. I was on the Enterprise. I was back on the Enterprise. At least, I think that's where it was. Iwas in Sickbay. Well, it might have been a hospital. On screen. Magnify. And do you suspect that that is my intent? Q, return to the ship immediately. Q Too close, Number One. Brinksmanship is a dangerous game. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Mister La Forge, Mister Data. I believe that if we find thesource of those tetryon emissions, we'll find the missing crewmembers. What is the source of this energy? Mister La Forge, I cannot excuse my entire senior staff. MisterWorf beat you to it. Very well, thank you. Natural causes? What in nature could cause that? No. We can't afford to start second guessing ourselves. We'llstay on this course until we have reason to change it. But let's doeverything we can to avoid the collision. We'll be waiting here to pick you up. In fact, the Admiral is fact suggesting you be moved to GalorFour, Lal. I want to meet your mother. Can you arrange that? Well done. Mister Worf, coordinate your teams with DoctorCrusher and Commander La Forge. Assess damage and injury. Indeed. Number One, will you and the Counsellor meet our guestsin Transporter room three? And inform Chief O'Brien I will be callingon him. Is he alive? Go ahead. I'm tired of fighting with you, Robert. Would you and Mister Data report to the Bridge? How are you feeling, Wesley? How contagious is it? Number One. Agreed. Thank you, Mister La Forge. I'll serve you better here. I do not require one, Tomalak. I didn't speak to you for months. Make it so. Ensign, you were recruited for one mission and if you wish tobe relieved of further duty, I can certainly arrange it. But I'd likeyou to consider remaining in Starfleet. RO Like it? Good. Excellent. Fourteen hundred hours, then. Mister Worf. The Enterprise encountered a probe that had been sent from theplanet before it was destroyed. It had scanned me and I lostconsciousness, and in the space of twenty five minutes I lived alifetime on that planet. I had a wife, and children, and a grandchild. And it was absolutely real to me. When I awoke, all that I had left ofthat life there was the flute that I had taught myself to play. For ambitious Starfleet officers, there are certain costsinvolved. One must be cautious of long-term commitments, Wesley. Report. Since you're concerned about these tests. I suppose so. Are they going to die? They're not curious or concerned as to why? Computer, is the Ferengi Goss still on board the Enterprise? Keep me posted, Picard out. That may be so, but it's not my decision. Mrs. Jameson, I have to ask the Admiral some questions. The boy, Wesley Crusher, where is he, please? It's just that I don't like Is the boy in any danger from you at this moment? Data, Captain Louvois has issued a ruling. You are the propertyof Starfleet Command. You can not resign. Anthwara, I want to make absolutely surethat you understand the implications of this agreement. By giving upyour status as Federation citizens, any future request you or yourpeople make to Starfleet will go unanswered. You will be on your ownand under Cardassian jurisdiction. It is hard to believe in what one cannot see. And yetconceivably, with their cloaking technology, a fleet of Romulanwarships could be passing before our eyes. There must be some way toneutralise this advantage. There's so much here we could have learned. I really regretlosing that opportunity. Mister Data, we have to find some way out of here. Beginscanning for another hatch or portal that might still be open. I don't know. If I could just get access to the Enterprisecomputer just for a few moments. So, what will Baran do once he'sobtained the second artefact? Yes. There is something else to keep in mind. We are deep inTalarian territory. A semblance of diplomacy is called for. I'm goingto agree to the meeting. Indeed you have. And more. This might prove to be an advantageto us. Very well. Helm, set course for Vacca Six. Of course. And what do I do here in Ressik? This will be the test. Stay between the Ferengi and the Hathaway. I'm sure you have, but Bok is a dangerous creature. He has astarship, he has technology. It's a very old theory, Number One. I'm not surprised that youhaven't heard of it. In the twentieth century, a physicist calledFreeman Dyson, postulated the theory that an enormous hollow spherecould be constructed around a star. This would have the advantage ofharnessing all the radiant energy of that star. A population living onthe interior surface would have virtually inexhaustible sources ofpower. This is my First Officer, Commander William Riker. May I showyou to your quarters? Permission granted. I wish I could excuse myself as well. On screen. Magnify. Mid twenty first century. The post-atomic horror. And understanding that has brought you a step closer tounderstanding humanity. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Computer, are there any members of the crew of the Enterprisemissing? Out of the question. That would mean breaking Taguan law. Q Counsellor? It seems you woke your Tin Man. Theorise. Well. it's certainly very exciting work. I've kept up on it inthe journals. Professor, I understand your frustration. At last. Review it with Doctor Pulaski. I want you both to becompletely familiar with it. Since the days of the first wooden sailing ships, all captainshave enjoyed the happy privilege of joining together two people in thebonds of matrimony. And so it is my honour to unite you, KeikoIshikawa, and you, Miles Edward O'Brien, together in matrimony Engineering, this is the Bridge. It's your call. I believe that it was. Gentlemen, we have a way home. Let me get on the other position. The Bynars always work inpairs. Maybe that is also required. It appears to be successful. Theirsystem's started up. A resident diagnostic programme is running. Theirsystem is absolutely incredible. Can we use our sensors to find them? There it is. SS Mariposa, loaded 27th November, 2123. Destination Ficus sector. Captain Walter Granger, commanding. Permission granted. On viewer. lieutenant Yar, open channel. Enterprise toshuttlecraft. Mister Kurland, this is Captain Picard. Mister Kurland. And that's what they have. Status. Because it always works, Worf. Your problem is that you reallydo have a sense of honour and you really do care about trust andloyalty. Don't blame me for knowing you so well. The priority is to find out who or what is doing this. NumberOne, the Bridge, such as it is, is yours. Doctor, we were not unconscious for a full day. Everything onboard indicates that we were out for thirty seconds. The ship'schronometer, the computer, everything, Doctor, including CommanderData. It's one of the reasons, yes. Yellow alert. Continue to monitor them. How do you know that? Is this brotherly concern? Well, then, I'll have to make him an acting ensign. Captain'slog, stardate 41263.4. For outstanding performance in the best ofStarfleet tradition, Wesley Crusher is made Acting Ensign, with theduties and privileges of that rank. And whether that rank becomespermanent, Mister Crusher, depends on you. At the earliest opportunity,your entrance application for Starfleet Academy will be tendered. Untilthen, you will learn this ship. Every operation, every function. Commander Riker, a duty schedule for Mister Crusher, heavy on study. Yes. I'm sorry. Not something I do easily. I can assure you it was not through official channels. Crude by our standards today, Data. But when this ship wasbuilt, humans on Earth were just perfecting the mechanical clock, stillusing steel crossbows in battle. Is there any way to see what's onthis? Come. Malencon? Bridge, Picard. Contact the Repulse using subspacecaptain's priority channel. Very good. JR This is the Bridge. Good to have you back, Commander. Did you create the anomaly? Q What can you not do anymore, Ensign? RO Well, I'm not here to debate Federation policy with you, but Ican offer you assistance. Some other time perhaps. Picard to Bridge. Yes, I've seen it. Well, I think they'll make a fine addition to the Federation,Number One. Thank you. Will you let us help you? I think we have seen all there is to see here. At MisterO'Brien's leisure, we're ready to return. Any sign of the crew? Failed? Voval, what is going on? They're forcing a difficult decision on me,Counsellor. Picard to Commander Riker. Do you read me? Why not? Well then my First Officer You will accompany me, Doctor? Please? I think it's time I paidmy respects. Open a channel, Mister Worf. Commander Riker, will you report to my Ready room? What sort of thing? Thank you. Q I wish I could believe that. I would accompany you to toSickbay, but I doubt if that would do us any good. I would appreciate you joining me on the Bridge. Bridge, this is Picard. This is the Captain. Can anyone hearme? Number One, I want you and Mister Worf to run high resolutionscans of this star system. Look for a ship, a base of operations,anything large enough to generate that power. Mister La Forge,accompany Doctor Clark back to the science station. See if you cantrace the origin of these tremors. Really? Clearly these are difficult issues to resolve. We have toproceed very carefully. So the first task is to test Mister Data'shypothesis. Pressure suit? He said he wanted to be alone. Perhaps it's a bigger moment forhim than we thought. I'm just a little more contemplative. And be Wesley Crusher's room mate? I will admit thatreturning to the Academy does have a certain appeal, but I've spent mylife looking forward. Going to the Academy again feels like lookingbackward. Nevertheless, Mister Tholl Counsellor? Very well. Mister Worf? Of course you couldn't. It was the most human decision you'veever made. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. I'll meet you in the lobby in fifteen minutes. Be punctual. Oh,and I advise you to change your clothing. No. Now would be a good time, Mister O'Brien. Same question. Why? Contact the Crazy Horse and the Agamemnon. Have them standingby in case we need them. And they have picked up indications of an intelligent lifeform, though nothing confirmed. The only place we can stop this is on the Bridge. Let's go. You mean he can talk? Both parties are involved, sir. I must admit you've piqued my curiosity, Admiral. Engineering, Mister La Forge. We're going to execute a nearwarp No! Reverse power, full impulse. Yes, Prime Minister? Open a channel to the Devoras. I don't care. Let's just get some distance between us and thissystem. Yes, but Data, this is a play. The audience has to see you. Put yourself in her place. You see, she cannot kill a hornbuckat a great distance. You can. You have a power she lacks. Please, take a seat, Ensign. I think I'm aware of your opinion, Commander. This is abriefing. I'm not seeking your consent. Of course. Well, shall we? What the hell is happening in Engineering? Not by choice? Are you somehow being controlled by that force? Did Geordi miss something when he examined you? Don't be a fool, Corey. Look, there are plenty of other peopleto play dom-jot with. Now just go about your business. I'll go along with that. Let's find out. Computer, discontinue holodeck simulationcreated by Professor Moriarty. Well, Lwaxana, it is something of a rather delicatesituation> It's the first real contact with a rather reclusiverace, and this is in the nature of an official greeting, so Paul Menegay, a seven year old. He did a most interesting claysculpture of my head. Qab jIH nagil Thirties? Acknowledged. Thank you. Where did youget this? Doctor Crusher, are you ready? We don't have a few hours. I told you, this cell is alreadybeginning to degenerate. Make it so, Ensign. Ensign Crusher, when you're finished with your duties inEngineering, report to my Ready Room. I don't recall saying I was embarrassed. If's just that Iprefer to be acquainted with the women that I kiss. Gul Macet the Federation and the Cardassians have struggled toohard for peace to abandon it so easily. You see? You knew how to laugh once. Do you remember any ofthis, Jono? Your parents, your home? Agreed. Whatever your motives, you've already done enough to damagethese negotiations. RO What is this first step that Pardek suggests? Enjoy yourself. You have the free time. Use it. Please, hear us. Your archive is destroying Make it so. It must have been lying in some deep moon crater. First attackdamaged the shields. In the confusion, they hit us a second time. It's a trap. Come on! Indeed. How do you make small talk with someone who shaped theFederation? We've got ourselves a puzzle, Number One. Oh, I got the days confused. I thought it was Tuesday when itwas Wednesday. I went to the Cafe Moulin instead of the Cafe desArtistes. Do you know which transporter was used? Splendid. Computer, begin playback from the first measure. Commander, we are prepared to defend the life of the alien. Screen off. Shields up. Then I suggest you put your personal discomfort on one side,Commander. Dismissed. Quickly, please. Can we move the ship? I did no such thing. I want you down in the Engine room just incase we need to move out of here. Why are you doing this, Kamala? You know Mister Mendoza, the Federation negotiator. Improvise. We have to find out how widespread thiseffect is. Contact Starbase Twenty three, that's the nearest outpost. Have them check their personnel to see if there are any signs oftemporal reversion. I'm sorry. Activate your viewscreen. I would likeyou to monitor what's going on up here. I may need your input. What do you want from me? Mister Data, we must convince the Romulans that we're stilllooking for the Pegasus. I want you to continue scanning this system. Well, I've had a few years to look it up. Professor, theEnterprise is yours for as long as you're here. On screen, before we lose contact. He was a fine man. A man of rare gifts. and greataccomplishments. He will be sorely missed. Does anyone else haveanything to say? I am sorry we couldn't save your ship. I want to try to communicate with it. Things would be different. 8.27 Engage. Security AlertPICARD Ferengi vessel, we are awaiting your response. Yes, I do. For the good of the ship and the safety of everyoneon board. Not at all. That's the last thing I would do. You, bydefinition, are part of our charter. Our mission is to go forth to seekout new and different life forms, and you certainly qualify as one ofthe most unique I've ever encountered. To learn about you is, frankly,provocative. But you're next of kin to chaos. Q Number One! We have come up with a plan that has the potential to seriouslycurtail the Maquis. We want to give them a target so threatening tothem that they'll be willing to commit as many ships and people aspossible in order to destroy it. RO Yes, it is true. This little nuisance is beginning to lose its fascination. The next time I'm there, it's the first thing I'll do. Take evasive action. RO Understood. We'll use the Jefferies tube. Let's go. Mister Data, begin a level one diagnostic. All transportersystems offline until further notice. Could they have materialisedsomewhere else? All hands, abandon ship! Repeat, all hands abandon If I'm not mistaken, she just did. No Ambassador. Commander La Forge and Ensign Crusher are Dispersal pattern, sierra. And fire! No, I'm afraid not. But we will be visiting the hydroponics andastrophysics laboratories. Gul Evek. I'm sorry that we could not come to your aid sooner. Captain La Forge has disappeared along with the rest of hercrew. Er, er. It's not over between us, Lwaxana. You're mine and Iwill not let you go. I insist you return to my side immediately. So what impact will that have on fatal exposure? Unfortunately, they have not arrived at a solution either. Have you definitely established that there's someone's insideit? Good. But it is preventing us from helping you. Now, you mustfind some way to shut it down. On screen. Hail them, Mister Worf. That's what I always called my first officer. So, here. That explains, Riker. What about me? Seventeen degrees to port, Ensign. What was that? Chorgan, this is Sovereign Marouk. I'm afraid that won't be possible. But you can have full use ofthe ship's computer to set up a comm. link and upload your data fromhere. If there's nothing further, you're dismissed. Very well, Mister Data. Thank you. Our guests will be leaving shortly. I need an emergency medicalteam down here. You stay behind me.  Mister Whalen's life. You must help us to save him. Terms accepted. I hope that's not a stutter. I don't know how long a delaythere will be between the launch and the detonation. I'll hold keyingthe launch sequence until you're through the gate. How long until theEnterprise reappears? On screen. Are you saying there was some conscious mind at work here? Don't touch him! Tell me more about this One. Does he have a name? Is he calledHugh? Viewer on. That would be a bit hard to explain. Bridge to Engineering. Stand by. Do we have them securely, Lieutenant? Can they beam out to theplanet? We can't help them. But it's my guess they're in no danger. It's the only explanation. Look at the four of us. We do havesomething in common. We all react differently to authority. You, thecollaborator, defer to whoever has control. You, the anarchist, rejectauthority in any form. I, a Starfleet Captain, trained to command. Andyou, a Starfleet cadet, sworn to obey a superior officer's authority. Our captors have placed us here and have devised obstacles for us toovercome. They give us food which Esoqq can't eat, to make him athreat. They give us a door we can't open until the four of usco-operate. And each time we succeed, they deal us reverses to set usagainst each other again, while you observe our reactions. If you don't follow orders. Status, Mister Data. Gently. Don't sit up too quickly. I didn't know how I would react. And then, little by little, Irealised that I didn't have those feelings any more. Twenty years is,after all, a long time. A significant beginning. But first, I must ask that DoctorCrusher be allowed to see her son before we continue. Not nearly enough, I suppose. Set auto-destruct sequence. Oh, cluck, cluck, Number One. Begin launch sequence. Lieutenant. Or a lover, perhaps? And if it doesn't? Every member of the Federation entered as a unified world, andthat unity said something about them. That they had resolved certainsocial and political differences and they were now ready to become parta larger community. Now, how would she react to you? Then help him to see the reality of what may happen to hiscolony. If he makes the right decision, if he's as good a leader ashe's designed to be, then perhaps the others will follow. We're on our way. Yes, Number One. The Enterprise? He said he needed more time. He was upset by our early arrival. But in fact I maintain he already had made that breakthrough and thathe was lying to us. Yes, we're here! Go on. With all due respect. Admiral, to put the Ambassador on boardanother unarmed transport would be to invite a second assault. Computer, where is Doctor Pulaski. Yes! Inside here! There should be a barrier of some sort nearby. A large plasmafield, highly disruptive. Our communications have been blocked by the nebula, Reittan. Isthere a problem? Transporter chief, yank them back now! Riker, acknowledge! Q Boothby, tell me some more about Nova Squadron. Romulan vessel, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USSEnterprise. Most likely. Gentlemen. Curiosity. Picard. Access. Captain's log, supplemental. We now know who hascommandeered the Enterprise. The Bynars. We can't communicate with theBridge. Commander Riker and I will now try to regain control of ourship. Yes. First officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprisehas moved into a synchronous orbit near the southern polar region. Weawait further instructions from Ten Forward. I'm pleased to report that Ensign Crusher's Starfleet examresults permit him to continue his studies on board the Enterprise. Furthermore, any rumours of my brush with death are greatlyexaggerated. Is that clear? He was a man, taken for all in all. I shall not look upon his likeagain. I am? How many more accidents? You must leave this body. Well. If you'll come with me. You don't have to do this. Picard here. Go ahead. I was here to protect the peace. A peace that I firmly believeis in the interests of both our peoples. If I had attempted to boardthat ship I am quite certain that you and I would not be having thispleasant conversation, and that ships on both sides would now be armingfor war. If her psyche has collapsed in on itself, could accessing hermind pose any danger to you? I don't know. Are the modifications to the torpedoescomplete? I am not the target of Bok's threats. Jason is. Go on with your report. No. Thank you. Picard out. Our comm. badges must be locked intothe simulation. If that had been the real Commander Riker, he wouldhave given my location as holodeck three. Mister La Forge, will youexcuse us, please? Good. All right. Stay with me, Doctor. Keep talking. What are the defensive capabilities of the Central Command? You would have me make the decision for you, nut I can't dothat. I am willing to talk to these people with you, and I will urgethem not to make an impulsive choice, but if finally they choose toleave, the Enterprise will not turn them away. Extraordinary. Where did it come from? How many Can you determine what happened? Of course. Jason, isn't there some way that I can be a father to you? Myown father and I were estranged. He wanted me to stay home and tend thevineyards and I wanted to join Starfleet. And he died before we couldcome to terms with that. And I've regretted that all of my life. Idon't want the same thing to happen to you and me. Picard out. But even when we wore costumes like that we'd already startedto make rapid progress. Q Really? Oh, yes, well these life forms feel such passionatehatred matters of custom, God concepts, even, strangely enough,economic systems When time resumed, did you observe any activity in the engineroom that might Sit down, Counsellor. I want to talk to youabout a matter of protocol. I know there are no Starfleet regulationsabout a Captain becoming involved with a fellow officer, but Don't risk everything you've worked for. Not yet. Why would you not bring something so important to the attentionof your own people or the Federation? There's a lava tube beyond here that runs for seventy fivemetres, then it connects with another chamber. We need to get throughhere. This tube opens up beyond this crack. We could widen the opening,then we should be able to crawl through. Mister Worf. And when I tell you, pull up hard. All right. Let's talk. Are you here to relieve me of duty? Go ahead, LaForge. What can you make out? It sounds delightful. We'll be at the rendezvous on schedule, don't worry. Excuse me. No other logical solutions? But Ambassador, there are alwaysother solutions. You have said so yourself many times. Not at all. But your unannounced appearance might haveunfortunate consequences. It would be an awful shame if your ship weredamaged due to some misunderstanding. Thirties? Data, do you believe that you're in communication with thatobject? Thank you, Mister Data. Have security confine all nonessentialpersonnel to their quarters. Computer, go to Red Alert. Very well. Lay in a course for the Devolin system. Mister La Forge, can we beam an awayteam onto the science ship? What's that hum? Find them. I must protect the rights of my officer. Resume course, Mister Crusher. Vorin, listen to me. We can visit many other worlds. We cantake you to one where you can build a new life. All of this is true, but there is an old horse trainer's adageabout putting too much weight on a young back. We don't want him tobreak under pressure. Yes, Commander. Please, come in. Sit down. I find myself havinggrave concerns about our mission. So you're taking on Riker this time. Excellent. He'll defeatyou just as I did. Q Damn. Mister Data, are your sensors picking up anything? Youshould be detecting a disturbance. Well, I just see a different big picture, Admiral. It lookssomething like this. I see the Cardassian liaison, with his Cardassianvirus, coming to meet with you after the attack on Solarion Four. Nowwe have a common enemy, he says. The Bajoran terrorists. TheCardassians can't find them, but maybe the Federation can. I'mbeginning to see that our mission has, in fact, been to expose Orta sothat the Cardassians can move in and destroy him. Why do you think that? Anna, no! What exactly will this work entail? I don't know what you're talking about. What are our orders? On whether or not it has something to do with the Tox Uthat. Locate all Earth deep space launches from 2123 until 2190, witha destination in or near the Ficus sector. Right. Commander, who do you think you're working for? Starfleet isnot an organisation that ignores its own regulations when they becomeinconvenient. Whether you like it or not, Data does have rights. How current is this information, Mister Data? We demonstrated to you that mankind had become peaceful andbenevolent. You agreed and you let us go on our way. Now why am I standing here again? Q Home? Q It's ironic, isn't it? All this magnificent technology and wefind ourselves still susceptible to the ravages of old age. The loss ofdignity, the slow betrayal of our bodies by forces we cannot master. Doyou still want to be one of us, Data? The modifications you made to the transporter. Is there any waywe could use a subspace transport from here to get me onto Bok's ship? Cup? Glass? K'mpec. May we have a short recess? We must stop it here so it can't travel back through time. Limit targets to engines and shields. Impossible. My culture is based on freedom and selfdetermination. So their only choice was to transfer all the stored informationand shut down until after it passed. And then reactivate their systemand transfer the information back to this main computer. Counsellor, I want you to come too. Do you remember anything else? One day. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Initiate full restart. Put all systems back online. Miss Odell, you were the one who wanted a new home. It would seem that Baran has to deliver these artefacts to theassassin in order to get paid. Therefore, you and I should continue ourmasquerade. Thank you. Ensign Rager, set course two five nine mark three one eight,half impulse. Are we talking about hallucinations? Commander Data, at your convenience, I would like to talk toyou in my Ready room. Counsellor? We are what we are, and we're doing the best we can. It is notfor you to set the standards by which we should be judged. Q Granted. I think you'll like serving on board theAjax. I hear that Captain Narth is an excellent officer. We don't even know if this catastrophe is preventable. Call aconference in my quarters. All senior staff. Bridge, seal off deck eight, corridors Aand B. That's where I'll be. Number One. Mister Data. Good work, Doctor. Commander Riker, set course for the Kaleb sector, warp factoreight. Lead the security team, and, Lieutenant, you understand withwhom you are dealing. Data, how long before we begin the transfer? Agreed. Mister Worf is ready to give you a detailed briefing onTilonian culture. Based on what we know so far, there's nothing I can do. And, you know, there's still a part of me that cannot acceptthat Q would give me a second chance, or that he would demonstrate somuch compassion. And if it was Q, I owe him a debt of gratitude. Yes, yes, yes. But say if it were undone, would she be normalagain? And the Romulans would have a legitimate excuse for respondingin force. You're damned right. Go ahead, Number One. I understand. You'll make a fine judge. That's the assumption. Could this planet have escaped that? Now, put us right in their path and come to a full stop. Fullpower to shields. You are dangerous. They're only victims. You made them whatthey are. You asked them to defend your way of life and then youdiscarded them. Find him. Get him up here. Begin evacuation of secondary hull. Prepare for emergencysaucer separation. And we will have it again, Number One. I have been studying theIconians since I was a cadet. I have to be the one to go. TheEnterprise is yours. Well good luck, Mister. Good luck, Wesley. No. I can find my own way there. Thank you, Commander. That's all? Mister Worf, open a channel to that communications array. I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. I'm serving ashost for these proceedings. On screen. Do you recognize this planet, Data? Yes. I am Locutus of Borg. Time to asteroid field? Could your friend have returned to the starbase without tellingyou? An emergency of some sort? Pipe it through. Mister La Forge, I would like you to accompany Captain Scott. Really. Come. Yes. There's a woman living here. She told me that she'd beento the shuttle. She said that she saw you dead. Can you determine how long they've been gone from theshuttlecraft? Some other time, Number One. But they could just as easily have shot her where she stood. Come. How can you be certain they're receivingus? It looks as though we may have found out how to locate Bok'sship. This could all soon be over. What happened? Data, what happened? We may have to, Number One. That would be acceptable. Starfleet Command agrees with you, but I would feel better ifyou would consent to an escort or Now, I'll go and get some rest. Ensign Ro has been confined to her quarters. No wonder it attacked us. It was about to give birth. Stay away from her, Q. Q Well, usually you have to remind me, then badger me, andfinally order me to report. For once I thought I'd save you thetrouble. Understood. I wish you were faking it. I've seen the thorn. What did you think it was? It's a terrifying prospect to lose control of one's mind. WhenI was young, I remember watching my grandfather deteriorate from apowerful, intelligent figure to a frail wisp of a man, who could barelymake his own way home. Mister Data, it is my responsibility somehow tosee that this ship is guided to safety. I will need to rely on you fromnow on. We may need to count on you for our very survival. I don't own the Enterprise, I command her. Fermat's last theorem. You're familiar with it? Picard to bridge. Report. Really? I always rather had to work at that. Yes, wherever possible. Doctor, over here! There are times, sir, when men of good conscience cannotblindly follow orders. You acknowledge their sentience, but you ignoretheir personal liberties and freedom. Order a man to hand his childover to the state? Not while I am his captain. If you wish, you canaccompany us to Starfleet, where we shall see Mister Data, what's your analysis? Yes, it can be, but I have never subscribed to the theory thatpolitical power flows from the barrel of a gun. They started out together. It seems only fitting they shouldend up together. If we can find Korgano in the archive and bring him out, thenperhaps he could force Masaka to leave. Mister Tholl! If this is Q I'm addressing, we are on a mission of rescuewhere a group of badly injured Q How much time do we have, Mister Worf? Don't. Is this what you've done to Counsellor Troi? They managed to get their shields back up. Can you correct the problem? I'm sure there are more than a few legitimate historians atStarfleet who will be quite eager to meet a human from your era. Oh,Professor. Welcome to the twenty fourth century. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. She was upset. Abort auto-destruct sequence. Sickbay. Is there any indication of a weakness in a specific part of thefield? You missed Gul Evek by a matter of hours. I asked him to stay. I thought that an Admiral's assurances might convince him that we aretrying to deal with this Maquis situation. Wondrous, yes, but not miraculous. The doors merely workdifferently from the ones you know. Yes. Using the information we found in your escape pod, we maybe able to return you to your people. You see them, don't you? Doctor? Mister La Forge? Nevertheless, my first and foremost consideration will be toensure the safety of this ship and its crew. You're not involved in this decision, boy. I find that almost impossible to believe. That Admiral Kennellywould considersupplying weapons to the terrorists? RO You'd better take a look at it, Mister Data. Mister Data, is that the trouble I believe it is? Coordinate your analysis with Mister La Forge. I want thisreport with dispatch. Ah. Yes, well, that wouldn't work here. How is the crew's spirit? Will, I want you to command the Excalibur. Her crew wasreassigned when she put in for repairs. Geordi, you will be his FirstOfficer. Why discount the possibility that it's responsible for thesecomas? Lieutenant. Tasha, it's all right. Then we have no alternative but to concur with his wishes. Oh? Transporter Chief, come in! I've people in trouble over there,Q. Well, I am trying to get things off on a better note this time. I want to make her feel at ease. I want her to feel that she's welcomeaboard the Enterprise. Let's concentrate on how this anomaly wasinitially formed. Speculation? Picard to Lieutenant Worf. Picard to Riker. Counsellor, what are these beings trying to tell us? Computer, locate Counsellor Troi. Amanda, what Q is asking is have you ever deliberately usedyour abilities? Thank you. Listen to what Shakespeare is telling youabout the man, Data. A king who had a true feeling for his soldierswould wish to share their fears with them on the eve of battle. And, if we were to violate the Prime Directive, how What's Lieutenant Yar's condition? Doctor Crusher, report! What was that? Doctor Stubbs, if you were a member of my crew, sir, I would I'm merely saying that I'm following up on evidence that myofficers discovered on board. How are our rather quarrelsome guests? Your father claims quite strenuously that he is innocent. It is our highest law that we shall not interfere with othercultures. Med Alert. Medical emergency. Doctor Crusher to the observationlounge at once. Problem, Number One? Mister La Forge, the system is clear. It was a ruse, designed to throw us off the track. Look at theclues. Doctor Crusher's incubation experiment, the computer clock, thetransporter trace. All indicate the existence of a missing day. Lieutenant Worf's broken wrist would seem to suggest that we were awakeand aware for that day, possibly in a struggle for our lives. I won't leave you. Please, let go of me. Picard to Lieutenant Worf. They know that the Ornarans no longer have the plague. Theyknow that felicium is no longer a medicine. So, of course, they arewilling to give this shipment because they don't want to take thechance that the Ornarans will lose their addiction. They don't want tolose their only customers. No. I'm going down to the planet myself. But this could be done through diplomatic channels, Admiral. What do you really want of us? Mister Data, you must mean it's empty of matter. There's alwayssome energy form at work. How can you make head or tail of it? Commander, assemble the senior staff and goto Red alert. We have a bigger problem than I thought. No. I'm really sorry. I don't. Then find others. And were they? Doctor, you said that this was formed from the organic matterfound in thedeck plates. My point exactly. The exercise will do me good. I'll try to re-acquaint myselfwith the surroundings. Good evening. No, Will. Good. I look forward to your report, Mister Broccoli. Barclay. Good. No need, Number One. Mister Remmick's presence is unnerving, tosay the least. Something more, Mister Data? Ihat and the others didn't seem to be frightened of Korgano. Why? Q Not even the stars. Are you addressing me? I will continue. What do you think, Doctor? Number One. Ensign, take us back on a course You mean to say you climbed through every tube on the ship? The lines are being drawn. All this for a chosen son. Yes, yes, yes. Suffice it to say, he's an expert. Commander, isyour contention that Lieutenant Commander Data is not asentient being and therefore not entitled to all the rights reservedfor all life forms within this Federation? Transporter room three. Lock onto the science team and beamthem aboard. Welcome aboard the Enterprise. I'm Tell me about Masaka. Acknowledged. Have Commander Riker come to my Ready room assoon as he's on board. Until what, Doctor? For what reason? Your planet was dying. It could no longer support life. We tookyou away from it. But you see no evidence of that. Worf wants you to live. The name of your father must someday becleared. He needs you alive with your honour intact. Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Keep me advised. Picard out. Gentlemen, I have the utmost confidence in your ability toperform the impossible. Very well. I'm not sure, Mister Worf. I have never known Data to tell alie, and yet. Raise security containment fields immediately on decks thirtyfour, thirty five, and thirty six. Make it so. Mister Mendrossen Damn! I'll call the Doctor again. Who are you? Or what? Number One, make sure that booby trap doesn't bother anyoneagain. Expected duration? When did you first become aware of them? You're talking about slavery. I'll fill you in later. This is a futile effort. Excuse me, to whom am I speaking? Oh, yes, of course, so we are. A cloaking device? Are you telling me there's no water? Make it so, Mister Data. Which would suggest what? Doctor, what is the state of the shuttle crew? Unacceptable. You had a reason. I want to know what it was. Damn it, you nearly killed a member of my crew. Mister Data, how long will it take to determine the exactlocation of the Pegasus? Beverly. But your fight with Sarek is over, Spock, and you have nonewith me. I'm not suggesting anything. I'm merely trying to come up withsome explanation for your abduction. I was thinking about it, but I didn't say anything. Five ships crossing within ten metres of each other andigniting their plasma trails. One of the most spectacular and difficultdemonstrations of precision flying. It hasn't been performed at theAcademy team in over a hundred years. Do you know why? There it is again. The same U-shaped symbol, small andinsignificant. Almost as if it's an afterthought. Standard orbit, Mister La Forge. Probably getting into more trouble than Wesley, I can assureyou. Oh yes, you do. This isn't a holding cell. It's a laboratorymaze, a carefully structured test. It's an experiment to see how wellwe react under pressure. Yes, yes, yes. Perhaps, Data, but that takes away none of thewonder. On screen. When did they leave? Very well. Deck nine. Officers' quarters. Do you have any memory of my calling Red Alert in Spacedock? Doyou remember Starfleet diverting us from Farpoint to the Neutral Zoneto investigate a spatial anomaly? The only one remaining is the one that needs no conversation. The only one we must avoid. I assure you Captain Riker is quite well. He's looking forwardto attending the final negotiations as planned. Damn it, Geordi, you're going to kill yourself. Data, are you familiar with Dytallix B? Tempering is taken to extremes. I'm sorry to disappoint you. Q Thank you. I assure you, we will do everything possible to make youcomfortable. Could it be telepathic? To the object in orbit with us. We will remove the humancolonists from the adjoining solar system if you signal us to do so. Please tell us. Empty your minds of violent thoughts. Make it so. I had no choice but to learn about that thing from her. I'msorry I had to. She was so frightened. You do? On the Enterprise, Mister Crusher, nothing just happens. Whatis that smell? Lock in on this location. Admiral, I am more concerned with protecting the honour andintegrity of Starfleet. Put it on screen. Thank you for taking the time to talk to us,DaiMon. The trouble is, he could be right. Your sensors indicated no intelligent life forms? It's a coastal city that has been neutral throughout theconflict. Both Seronians and Rekag loyalists live there. It might beacceptable as a compromise. But he's an android. Is that possible! Certainty? Or speculation? It's begun. No. No, I won't promise. You have been manipulating me, haven'tyou? Come. Well, Data, you never may become fully human, but you've had anexperience that transcends the human condition. You have been an entirecivilisation. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. All stop. On screen. Full scan, Mister Data. Is that what they are? Tests of pain? Report! The attack in which he himself was killed? But why now, aftertwenty years? Admiral, centuries ago these North American Indians wereforcibly displaced from their ancestral lands. These settlers on DorvanFive originally left Earth more than two hundred years ago in order topreserve their cultural identities. Reunification? After so many centuries? After so manyfundamental differences have evolved between your peoples? That is not possible. You cannot exist outside this room. Understood. You will always be welcome aboard this ship, Admiral. All stations? But, Command? And what about when there are no others, when you are alone? Explain. Doctor Crusher and I are ready, Radue. And from that point we have been existing in a holodecksimulation created by Professor Moriarty? Restart the engine, now! Pull up hard! You have? I'm really sorry. Thank you. Wesley! You were never considered a danger to us, Captain. No. Why? Position, Mister La Forge. I understand. Mister Data, I see you gifts have been well received. Then I have enough time to back to the ship and get my saddle. Take us out of here. The Romulan ship is set to auto-destructand they can't deactivate it. Well, Professor Moriarty has agreed not to interfere withroutine ship operations so long as he believes we're acting in goodfaith, then I don't think we're in immediate danger. Any progress? We've arrived safely, Number One, but sofar we've been ignored. I'll keep you informed. Suggestions? Mister La Forge? No, no, no. That's not it. I want you to identify something forme, if you can. Captain to Transporter Room. Three to beam up. Strange how he seems to care for you. Well, this is a relief. I thought that perhaps Q had found Then our business with you is concluded. You're injured. And something else? Why do you say that? Eluded the Enterprise? None that I know of, but I'll check with the Bajoran liaisonOffice. RO I see. That puts me in a difficult position. I promised toescort these people to their camps. Are we within sensor range? Yes, but Spoken like a true Starfleet graduate. It is tempting, eh,Number One? Do it. That's an order. But surely, Worf, you must still have some influence. We haveto get into the Neutral Zone. Can't you just get us permission to crossthe border? If you wish to withdraw from the ja'chuq, that is your option. Proceed, Mister Worf. I don't need to see the records. Hail the Tamarian ship. Understood. I doubt that he'll do that. I've increased the accuracy of theidentification process by a factor of ten. I'm the best person toanalyse these artefacts. Baran knows that. Slow to impulse. The entire crew somehow managed to kill themselves, Doctor. Ifit's not a disease, what else could have made them do that? Where is he? Is there nothing that will cure this infection? Geordi, we've lost transmission. Then you must unconditionally surrender. Alright! We agree there is evidence to support the court'scontention that humans have been savage. Therefore I say test us. Testwhether this is presently true of humans. Q What the devil? No. Q This disc must contain some very valuable information. Hail it. This biochemical stasis, does it suppress synaptic functions? Mister Data, overlay weapon ranges of the two ships. Amanda? Q Mister La Forge, I want you to drive the warp engines to fullpower, and direct a flow of energy out into the nebula. But it's not conclusive. A second artefact? Oh, by the way, that first artefacts is notRomulan. It's Vulcan. Did they show any interest in assimilating you or yourtechnology? I'll be in the lab. Initiate launch sequence. Captain Riker, we can carry out your repairs immediately. So, what's our status? Why? I haven't a clue. Mister Worf, where is the Devoras now? Very well. He's an admiral, I'm a captain. I cannot force youto disobey his orders. Therefore I will have to remain in the dark onthis mission. And I will just have to trust that you will not letPressman put this ship at unnecessary risk. And if I find that thattrust has been misplaced, then I will have to re-evaluate the commandstructure of this ship. Dismissed. What if we modified the phasers to send out a luvetric pulse? It might create a resonance fluctuation in Data's power cells. Left by whom? There are no indications of life on this planet. When Pierre de Fermat died they found this equation scrawled inthe margin of his notes. X to the nth plus Y to the nth equals Z to thenth, where n is greater than 2, which he said had no solution in wholenumbers. But he also added this phrase. Remarkable proof. I was somewhere else a few moments ago. Energise. Neverthe less, this is an option we cannot neglect. We'llcontinue on other fronts as they present themselves. For now, let's seewhat she has to say. It's protecting Kevin and Rishon. It responds to their wishes. Indirectly or directly, I'm not sure, butthat's what I'm going to put to the test. Signal the Cardassians that we're standing by to assist them ifthey have any wounded. You know, this may be a long shot, but we should check each oneof these seventeen people to see if they have the correct proteinconfigurations. But you will still be here. In this place. For ever. Alone. Immortal. Sidney. Let's test that. Beginning with the tunnels you have underFarpoint, Groppler. Do you have any idea what killed her? Passenger accommodation. Why? Oh, I see. I think that I preferred your eyes the way they were before. Ithink I preferred you the way you were before, Beverly. Part of you must have blamed me. Because I assume that if you choose go to the cargo bay, thenyou won't to take all of the hostages. Their safety is my chiefpriority. Ah. Commendable, Lieutenant. Mister La Forge, set course forStarbase Eighty four. I find it hard to believe that you are doing this for thebenefit of my soul. Q Welcome back, Mister La Forge. I would like to propose a swap. Look at him. He's a different person. We'll have an answer shortly. Lock on tractor beam, Mister LaForge. Good luck, Hugh. What was that? Rubbish On screen. Please identify yourselves. Can you hear us now? Mister La Forge? It's not going to be easy, staying here on campus, everyoneknowing what you did. You have difficult times ahead. Has it been adrift for all those years, or has it has travelledthrough time? If you each bring your samples on board the Enterprise, I willcombine them with ours. And then we will all observe the resultssimultaneously, giving no one the advantage. Number One, you have the Bridge. Counsellor Troi, would youaccompany me to deck fourteen conference room. Worf, see to our guests. Data! Where is he? Merde. Shields up. Well, he's in our highest security detention area. Thereshouldn't be any more problems. What problem is that, DaiMon Bok? That's how you see it. I'm afraid I have no choice. Yes, I should say you should, Commander. Your holodeck activities can wait until later. And Commander. Kamala? Yes. She's looking forward to meeting you. Q, you exceed your own standards of self-preoccupation. Youhave no concern for an officer who may have saved your life. Q They're your brothers, your sons, and you turned your backs onthem. All hands, brace for impact! The first ship I ever served aboard as Captain was called theStargazer. It was an overworked, underpowered vessel, always on theverge of flying apart at the seams. In every measurable sense, myEnterprise is far superior. But there are times when I would givealmost anything to command the Stargazer again. They were infected. They used the felicium to cure themselves,but somehow their ancestors realised that it was a narcotic. Mister Data. We'll find the anomaly. I know we will. Is it possible they could have been feeding you disinformation? You said that you had been censured. Reassigned, four months ago. Theyknew of your dissatisfaction. Could all this have been to test yourloyalty? He's devious, and amoral, and unreliable, and irresponsible,and, and definitely not to be trusted. I got this headache long before I even knew my old ship stillexisted. Still, perhaps you're partly right. Some kind of coercive device? Come. Slow to one quarter impulse. RO She's so very different from the images we've experienced onthe holodeck, isn't she? She's more intuitive. Come. Perrin? An android? What happened to us in that missing day? Surely there must besome clues. Each of us should try and think what we were doing justbefore we blacked out. Reenact it if you have to. It's the least I can do. Why? If the plasma exploded that would explain a few things. Let meknow when the analysis is complete. Sorry, Captain. You made a decision to leave the ship? P2 Come. Just be gone. That'll do nicely. Q I wanted to ask, during the second arpeggio in the firstmovement, I noticed that you played an F minor chord instead of adiminished D. Good. Our orders were to find him, to bring him back to thecamps any way we could. Perhaps that is exactly what we should do. RO I'm not interested. The admiral displayed a remarkableimprovement out there, wouldn't you say? Then it must have been intercepted before it reached me. Please sit down. Guinan is very selective about whom she callsa friend. RO Mister La Forge and Doctor Clark have madeno headway. Commander Riker and Lieutenant Worf have picked nothing upanything on their scans. No. But I'll tell the gambling foreman someone's been tamperingwith his dom-jot table. The Starship Essex vanished over two hundred years ago. Come. That's what it says on my door. Whatever that freighter was carrying, they certainly didn'twant it to reach us. Are you sure you don't know what it was? Well, you know, that really does look very nice, Mister Mot. Ithink that will be sufficient. No, the concert will ahead as scheduled. But it's a pity thatthe guest of honour will be absent. I'll tell you why not. Q Mister Danar, I'm transferring you to Angosian security. They're en route. They will arrive shortly. I wanted to tell you I haveno choice. The Prime Minister insisted and we have no right to refuse. It will provide you with clothing, food and clean water. Lieutenant Worf demonstrate its operation. The saucer module should fall out of warp in two minutes. Beprepared to sweep back. Pull it in with a tractor beam. Moriarty, my responsibility is this vessel and its crew. I think you will find that attitude prevalent among all theEnterprise people. We could use this time to recalibrate the weapon targetingarray. Mister Worf? If you won't take them, I most certainly will. You were there. The disruptors lost power. Computer, reset fordiagnostic of new sample. Begin scan. Unfortunately, yes. But since then Which was? Mister O'Brien, energise. I've told you all that I know. Maintain an open frequency. After the shields fall, how long before fatal exposure? Mister Dirgo, I would appreciate it if you didn't bury mebefore I'm gone. Is something the matter? Well, what got us here? Why? Why am I sentient? There. You can't kill all of us. You need us to run the ship more thanwe need you to command it. But you're asking, you're asking me to restrict Mister Tarses'movements solely on the basis on Sabin's feeling. Mister Remmick, either get out of my way and keep quiet, or Iwill have you removed from the Bridge. Viewer on shuttle cockpit. Lets use it. This ship must have a crew. They may still havetheir memories. RO In the case of this group, it apparently worked. Mister Data,will you report to Sickbay. The centre of the galaxy. That sound again. Can we get more power to the shields? Number One Doctor Crusher has some livevaccine bacilli to be delivered to Tagra. It'll have to be shipped in astasis field. Will you make the arrangements? Mister Kurland! On screen. I think I understand the predicament you were in. It could nothave been an easy choice. Keep at it, Mister La Forge. Raise shields. And I want a level four security alert. I needto know if anyone comes on or off this ship. Any professional reasons? Temba, his arms open. Give me more about Darmok on the ocean. I understand that you've relieved Doctor Russell of duty. I', doing my best, although I'm finding some of the ritualsquite demanding. That's right. Well, my mates and I were at the BonestellRecreation Facility, which was something of a dead rough crossroads atthe time, filled with an assorted bunch of galactic riffraff. When atrio of Nausicaans came in, they were clearly spoiling for aconfrontation with a group of fresh-faced Starfleet officers such asourselves. Well, everyone in the group had the good sense to give theseNausicaans a wide berth, to stand off. Everyone, that is, except me. Istood toe to toe with the worst of the three, and I toldhim whatI thought of him, his pals, his planet, and I possibly made somepassing reference to his questionable parentage. And the next thing Iknew, all three of them were on me and I was fighting for my life. Iwas actually doing quite well for a while, too. Mister Worf, take them to level five. Disarm them. Hold themfor questioning. I was there I saw the tears. Just have Mister Data fetch me in a shuttle. And have him bringalong a uniform. Is there any possible connection with Mister Crusher'sexperiment? Could this warp bubble be floating around the ship perhaps? Commander Riker has dramaticallydemonstrated to this court that Lieutenant Commander Data is a machine. Do we deny that? No. Because it is not relevant. We too are machines,just machines of a different type. Commander Rikerhas also reminded us that Lieutenant Commander Data was created by ahuman. Do we deny that? No. Again it is not relevant. Children arecreated from the building blocks of their parents' DNA. Are theyproperty? I call Lieutenant Commander Data to the stand. Has something else happened? The incident that you wereinvolved in at the Academy. Do you like Commander Data? Well, I've never been afraid of reevaluating my convictions,Professor, and now, I have twenty million reasons to do so. Ah, to me it's just an undefined form,standing in a visual frenzy. Can you filter out the extraneousinformation? Other comments? Mixed feelings for all of us. It's always difficult leaving anyship, just as it was for your mother This is Captain Picard. We're prepared to escort you to ValoThree. Mister Crusher? Why aren't you in yourdress uniform for Admiral Quinn's farewell dinner? I speak now as the Captain of the Enterprise and LieutenantWorf's commanding officer. You will not executea member of my crew, nor will I turn his brother over to you. Exactly. In a moment. You were about to say? You what? You cannot confine her against her will. Not on board thisship, Ambassador. She is requesting some freedom of movement and Iintend to give it to her. So if Palmer, in his delirium, fled into a cave, we may beunable to detect his life signs? Mister Data, you were ordered to rendezvous with the fleetat Gamma Eridon. Acknowledge. If that's possible, of course. I am not being unreasonable. You cannot explain away a wantonly immoral act because youthink it is connected to some higher purpose. I'm sorry, Lieutenant. My mind must have wandered. What wereyou saying? No, neither can I. Unless they're baiting some kind of trap. And quite adamant. Mister Okona, what crimes are you accusedof? Welcome aboard, Greg. Yes, Number One. Come in. We're trying to determine what happened right now, and if thereis anything you can remember that may assist Q. It's about time you showed up. Q Are you finished? Follow him! How strong are your shields, Captain? No. I will change into some appropriate costume. Uniforms mightpose questions I'd rather he didn't ask. It seems that he feeds onknowledge. Well, let's not give your nemesis any more information thanwe have to. It would seen to be an ancient interplanetary code. MisterData? Then I wish you and your people well. Why are you safe?. Why is this house a sanctuary? Does it haveto do with you? With your refusal to fight? Tell me this. If Rishonwere in danger, would you kill to save her life? Mister Data, keep an eye on the Cardassian border. Engage deflector shield, now. Then help me, please. What is a way out of this? Excuse me. Doctor Crusher, some of this may interest you. Letshear the analysis. Yes, sir. Of course. Red alert. I am Locutus of Borg. From this time forward,you will service us. Shall we? Are you all right? Thank you, Mister Data. Anna! Anna! Are you prepared to hear her evidence in open council? I have been looking over the glyphs and pictograms from theCalder Two artefact. And although I don't have enough data to translateall the inscriptions, the alphabet and symbology is much moreconsistent with early Vulcan than Romulan. But in those few seconds, the Enterprise might break free. That's what he, that's what the other Picard must have thought. You have the Bridge, Number One. I'll be in my Ready room. What the hell are you doing here? You stay here. Keep warm. I'll go and look for her. Deceiving innocent people with her petty schemes for years. Ventax Two must have offered her the greatest opportunity of hernefarious career. She learned of the myth of Ardra, studied it andexpertly played on your fears that your people were ready to virtuallysurrender to her. How far do you think that trust goes? Report. All right. Is there any way that we can affect these organisms? Unacceptable, K'mpec. This is not a law. It is a treaty. It is designed to smoothrelations between peoples. Not to act as a strait We can no longer consider the DarwinStation crisis our most immediate concern, although Doctor Pulaski'scondition is inseparably linked with that emergency. Her safe returnand that of Commander Data must take priority, please. I'm Captain Picard, commanding this Federation starship. Am I? Hello. If her discomfort is going to affect her judgement or herobjectivity, I need to know now. Talk to me, stay awake. Tell me something. Tell me about thoseroots. How did you know their medicinal values? That's taking a risk. It looks harmless enough. New heading two nine nine mark one eight. I certainly don't look it. Q Dismissed. Geordi? I'm very sorry that you didn't find yourmother. This is information you already know. And so nothing haschanged. We'll both go. Come. Welcome home, Mister Data. Well done. My rights. My status. My right to choose. My life. It seemsreasonably self aware to me. Commander? I'm waiting. Then T'Jon, and Romas, indeed everyone on their world? Our situation is similar to theirs. I understand that. But Ineed to know more. You must tell me more about Darmok and Jalad. Tellme. You used the words, 'Temba, his arms wide' when you gave me theknife and the fire. Could that mean give? Temba, his arms wide. Darmok. Give me more about Darmok. Understand, Commander. This is the Captain. Senior officers will report to myReady room immediately. A strategy, with fist open. With fist open. Oh, yes, thank you. New orders from Starfleet. The rendezvous. Nothing, thank you. The rendezvous with the Goddard hasbeen postponed. If the Taguans were to catch you down there. I wasn't. I was a puerile adolescent who allowed himself to beled by his hormones instead of his head. Q Then he will die. Can you identify the problem? Logical. You'll have to be a little more precise. Is there any indication what caused this hallucination? It's still a little vague, but I can remember more this time. It seems that every time I shift periods, I can retain more memory. Atfirst, it appeared that I was in the future, years from now, and then Iwas in the past just before our first mission. Engage. Very well. What do we do. What then? Perhaps the good ones never get them. I'm configuring the disruptors to fire a phase resonant pulse. If I can hit their shield generator with precisely the right frequency,I should be able to take it out with one shot. Firing. Their shieldsare down. Even with all these uncertainties, we've got to try. Takewhatever steps are necessary to send a message. Dismissed. Do you know who it is? Lieutenant Yar's death is very painful for all of us. We willhave to deal with it as best we can for now. Until the shuttle crew issafely beamed aboard this ship, our feelings will have to wait. Is thatunderstood? Lieutenant Worf, you are now Acting Chief of Security. That there is room for discussion, Radue. Inexcusable. You defied the orders of theranking officer on the scene. You put the lives of the entire away teamin jeopardy, and you made an already tense situation worse. Youractions reflect very badly on this ship and on that uniform. Now, Iwant an explanation, Mister Crusher, and I want it now. Well, we would appear magical to Stone Age people. These will be your own words, your Honour. What exactly whatfollowed his Honour's statement that the prisoner will not be harmed? I see four lights. Come. I've been looking forward gagh. Haven't had it for quite awhile. Very fresh. They know? Energise. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Did you see that, Mister Data? Come. Lock phasers. Open a channel. Can it be repaired, at least enough to access the database? Beverly, the answers will come. Yes, I'm fine. Really, Marta, I'm fine. And how are you, Counsellor? That's odd. There's a seven year gap. Doctor, I don't understand. What has happened? Coalition. Alliance. It all sounds so reasonable, but whatyou've described is the behaviour of urban street thugs. We certainlywon't trade weapons for crewmen. How do you suggest we deal with them? Go to manual. Picard to Arkaria base. Deactivate the baryon sweep. ArkariaBase, this is Captain Picard on board the Enterprise. Deactivate thebaryon sweep! Quite original. How long before a total systems failure? Well done, Doctor. Well done. Q, there is no dignity in this suicide. Q How interesting. So are we. Perhaps we could combine ourefforts and share our findings. Go ahead, Doctor. Data, what do you think? Right. Now, I think it's time to call in some old favours. Contact Admiral Riker, Starbase two four seven. Welcome back, Doctor. Come. But it seems to be humanoid. Yes, but you must have so many enemies. Certainly you knew thatonce you became mortal some of them might look you up. Q We're prepared to transfer. Oh, no, not at all. I thought you'd be comfortable here. Data, I would like you to make Timothy the best android he canpossibly be. You'll just have to trust me. Did you find anything that might suggest why you're apparentlythe only one among us unaffected by this, this phenomenon? Yes. I recall how you used your superior morality when we firstencountered you. You put us on trial for the crimes of humanity. Q I want that four percent, Lieutenant. What is the condition of the alien ship? You want me to give you transportation? Attacking those who had captured, capture its mate. From whom? Where is your documentation? Have you been able to determine why he's still unconscious? Which would infect the entire Collective. We could disabletheir neural network at a stroke. No. The same old story is the one we're meeting now. Self-righteous life forms who are eager not to learn but to prosecute,to judge anything they don't understand or can't tolerate. Q No, we don't have time for that now. Mister Worf, send amessage to the nearest starbase. Ask them to dispatch a crew. You said it was important that I see you. Is it stable enough for an away team? We should stay here for the night. Go ahead, Doctor. Enterprise to away team, come in. That's so. It's going to take some getting used to. I never felt better. Data. Good. I prefer it that way. I'm sorry to hear that. I'll send yourregrets. It's alright, Counsellor. Perhaps there's nothing out there tosense. Thank you. When Hugh was separated from the Borg collective he began togrow and to evolve into something other than an automaton. He became aperson. When that happened, I felt I had no choice but to respect hisrights as an individual. No, I'd never leave Starfleet. What is our velocity? Assure him that we are doing everything possible. And, advisehim that if necessary I will defend my ship. Data do we have a tomographic imaging scanner on board? Counsellor, I want to reiterate, if you have any doubtswhatsoever about this procedure, you don't have to go through with it. Explain. I hardly ever recall dreams. All right, let's assume for the moment I believe you, that youare indeed from the future. What is it that you want from me? Belay that order, Lieutenant. Shields up. No one is going toharm you. I'm not anything now, Number One. I'm just a man who's lookingfor answers. What about the Fleming? How long can they survive in there? No, no, we don't have time for that. We've encountered a minormystery, one that has been solved to my satisfaction. Number One,unless there's a major objection, then Ensign McKnight should put usback on course for Evadne Four. Thank you. So, he has access to the computer. Engineering, are all systems back online? If that's something you were going to test, Yes, what is it? How do we reason with them? Let them know that we are not athreat? Make it so, Mister Worf. Whose lives? Will you have dinner with me tonight? Condition? Advise Mister Conor, Number One, and brief the appropriateofficers. Prepare them for transport as soon as Mister Conor approves. Most of the secondary systems were changed at the lastoverhaul. I don't think they'll give you any problems, but you mightwant to check out the port lateral I thought that the weather controlmalfunction was not severe. I'm not accusing you of anything. And what is this place? Ah. Riva negotiated several treaties between the Klingons andthe Federation. Mister Worf, open a channel to Starbase two nineteen. AdviseAdmiral Nakamura I'll be a little later than I thought. Understandable, given this particular life form's novel nature. Don't call me Captain. Is this how the Iconians travelled? Crossing light years aseasily as we would cross a room? Those places could be on worlds indistant sectors of the galaxy. I think the Iconians might haveout-foxed their enemies. Maybe they didn't all die in the bombardment. Some of them could have passed through this. This is what Varleyfeared. This is what he died for. He is human. The medical scans have proved that, right, Doctor? Admiral, if it is me you're investigating,ask me directly what it is you want to know. And please tell me exactlywhat is going on. Status report. Data, what happened over there? Who's next? Why didn't they say something? Why didn't they just ask forhelp? No. Security, disregard that order, and clear all personnel,repeat, all personnel, from Shuttlebay two. Sneezing? If it works, the Romulans won't find anything and we can returnlater. If it doesn't They make serious accusations against you. I'm not sure of your point. We beamed them up an hour ago. They're fine. Why? Tea. Earl Grey. Hot. Have you been ableto determine the cause of our transformation? So Gowron has come on board in order totest your claim. Interesting choices. Amanda, allow me to introduce, er, Q. He's er, he's anacquaintance of ours. We've er, we've known him for years. Q Good. When it's done I want you to find some way of collapsingthis anomaly without making things worse. Give me a risk analysis ofwhatever solution you come up with. Quite right. So you should. It's all over, Q. You have nofurther business here. Q I've seen this symbol everywhere too, but much less prominentlydisplayed. It's always in the background, smaller than the others. And if it interfered with neural activity there? I don't see anything. Make it so. How much longer until we clear the rift? Think of them as a single, collective being. There's no oneBorg who is more an individual than your arm or your leg. This situation has existed for a very long time. These twosocieties are intertwined in a symbiotic relationship. Open hailing freq. Why are we gaining on them? Don'tanticipate. You're right, Q. You gave me the chance to change and I tookthe opportunity. But I admit now, it was a mistake. Q Attention, Ferengi starship. This is Captain Picard. It isobvious that we are in a situation here which needs resolving, and weare willing to do whatever is required, whatever is necessary. I wouldlike, I would request, that you present your terms to us. Captain's log, stardate 41386.5. It is with a heavyheart that I have offered to meet whatever reasonable andnecessary terms are demanded by the Ferengi. I fear for my people andmy vessel in the event the unknown Ferengi ask the unreasonable. Howcan I oppose even unreasonable demands? That's one reason we tend to suspect sabotage. I'm going to go look for the shuttle myself. Make it so. Yes. What is it? Have we reached the Neutral Zone? Mister La Forge, my reputation as a litigator, not to mentionmy immortal soul, is in serious jeopardy. Go on. I wouldn't be surprised if he doesn't know who you are. He'll probably have the same questions that I do. How did you get here? What ship did you come on? According to Data, the sun image is also a symbol for death. What did you say? Increase power to forward shields. Hail them again, MisterWorf. How much? Then it seems you have more knowledge of the situation than I. When his family was killed, how did he take it? Picard to Engineering, can we transfer auxiliary power to thewarp nacelles? Try to break us out by using the We would be more than willing to extend our visit, sir. Help him? Tomalak, how is it possible you didn't know of the secondRomulan on Galorndon Core? Open a hailing frequency. Set a course for Seronia. Strange. I would expect Betazoids to be outstanding animaltrainers. Absolutely not. Nevertheless. Perhaps later. There are four lights. Can you reverse the process? I like climbing. There's something about actually having yourfate in your own hands. Stand down from red alert. Why wouldn't they? With the Ferengi making these friendshipovertures, I could become a severeembarrassment to Starfleet. If time is so important, why didn't they transmit the orders bysubspace? I couldn't find your medical kit. I think it would be a shame for Starfleet to lose someone ofyour potential. RO You are the only living thing that really exists on Rana. Andthough you look human, you're not. How about Jean-Luc? Slow to ten metres per second. Hailing frequencies. Tell me, Tallera, what are these artefacts we've beencollecting? I know that they are Vulcan in origin. I'm sorry, Gloria, but there is a twenty-fourth century mysteryI have to investigate. You are very welcome to carry on, if you like. No. No apologies are necessary. You reminded us that there areobligations that go beyond duty. I may suffer almost as much. Starfleet takes the PrimeDirective very seriously. 2 I understand and I respect your people's long journey, but Ibelieve that I can help you to find a new home. Why was he assigned to the Lunar Five facility? Accepted, so long as you keep to your agreement. And assaultingprisoners is hardly a fair trial. Q Computer, display the latest excavationschematics on Landris Two. Well, I'll think about it and let you know. You don't believe that my career in Starfleet has been amistake. Security to Transporter room two. Make contact there and on all hailing frequencies. This is theEnterprise to Lutan and the Ligonian government. You have committed anunfriendly act. We insist that you reply immediately. There is a price. What were they trying to communicate? There. Right, then let's get to work. Jimmy Cuzzo. I know that name. I'm Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of the Enterprise. Welcome aboard. Did something hit us, Mister Worf? Grand. Commence operations. I will not step outside the traditional role of the Arbiter. Is it closed? Time to the Solarion system? We are hounding an innocent man. Mister Crusher, keep us within two hundred kilometres of theEnterprise-C. Lutan, we are aware of many of your planet's achievements, andits unique similarity to an ancient Earth culture we alladmire. On behalf of the Federation, therefore, I would like to presentthis token of our gratitude and friendship. From China's Sung Dynasty,Fourteenth Century. The ship in the bottle. Model air ships. I used to build themwhen I was a child. My God, I bet I had a Promellian battle cruisertoo. A respiratory aliment? Is it contained? This is not a case of simple mediation. You are asking me tochoose the next leader of the Klingon Empire. And our attacker fired on the wrong one. What condition? Can he talk? I am deeply concerned by what is happening here. It began whenwe apprehended a spy, a man who admitted his guilt and who will answerfor his crime. But the hunt didn't end there. Another man, Mister SimonTarses, was brought to trial and it was a trial, no matter what otherschoose to call it. A trial based on insinuation and innuendo. Nothingsubstantive offered against Mister Tarses, much less proven. MisterTarses' grandfather is Romulan, and for that reason his career nowstands in ruins. Have we become so fearful? Have we become so cowardlythat we must extinguish a man because he carries the blood of a currentenemy? Admiral, let us not condemn Simon Tarses, or anyone else,because of their bloodlines, or investigate others for their innocentassociations. I implore you, do not continue with this proceeding. Endit now. Unfortunately, we have a law known as the Prime Directive. I was following orders to take this ambassador to a locationnear the Neutral Zone. Guinan. As payment in full for your debt to me, you will guarantee hersafety. Q Can we just get this over with. It would take nearly a century at warp nine to cover thatdistance. Of course. Forgive me, Jay Gordon. Data, allow me to introduce Chancellor Avel Durken and SpaceAdministrator Mirasta Yale. She felt it necessary to reveal that to you? No. Because there is something else you can learn. With an alertcrew, even our primitive vocal communications are unnecessary. With asingle look I was able to inform my crew that I wanted to hold youhere. 4 Perhaps they're all remembering that old saying. Powercorrupts. Hold this position. Let's see if they've spotted us. Magnification, one hundred. Mister Data? Very well. Prepare a class one sensor probe. We'll leave itbehind to monitor the final closure. Mister Crusher, lay in a coursefor Archer Four. I assure you there is no one more eager to put this behind usthan I am. On screen. Doctor Manheim, I did not come here to discuss your wife. Of course. Anna, would you pass me that tricorder, I'm going totry to repair these energy relays. Mrs. Troi, there is something you ought to know about Rex. Go ahead, Chief. It must have been terrible. It's alcohol. Doctor, the sperm whale on Earth devours millions of cuttlefishas it roams the oceans. It is not evil. It is feeding. The same may betrue of the Crystalline Entity. Thank you, Data. But if this was a ship full of utopians, whycarry all this technological baggage? Only a few more metres. Data, I understand your objections, but I have to considerStarfleet's interests. What if Commander Maddox is correct, there is apossibility that many more beings like yourself could be constructed. Or how to kill it. Acknowledged. I might ask you the same question. Shields up. Prepare a tractor beam. Mister La Forge, I'm goingto assist you in your research. A probe has been launched from Iconia. Thank you. Form an away team, Number One. Your Honour, nothing in this testament proves that Ardra hadthe power to affect the lives of the Ventaxians. My opponent has failedto prove her case and I move that her claim be summarily dismissed. Can you match these stars to our charts? What can we do? Mister Worf, acknowledge the signal from New Berlin andtransmit another copy of Starfleet's ship-recognition protocols andtell them to read it this time. Forbid it? Computer, route all command functions to this location. It'll be the first order of business tomorrow. At ten. Mister Worf, red alert. End this, and I will give you whatever help you need. Well. a strong forearm is certainly an advantage in fencing. Doctor. But he knows where he is, who's here with him. Successful? Yours is a different world. Acknowledged. Counsellor, are you in position? Your people prepare a warm welcome. I see. Do you know his whereabouts now? No, not exactly They've locked it off. We must find another way to get in. What about the relays? Are you absolutely certain you don'tneed a new phase invertor? If you're right, perhaps we could escape the loop by avoidingthe collision. Thank you, Mister Data. Yes, I remember. Trillions? I've never heard the word Tkon before. I've been in touch with Admiral Hahn at Starfleet Academy. TheAdmiral regrets your missing the oral examination but hopes that you'llreapply next year. The good doctor was kind enough to provide me with a recordingof your concert. Your performance shows feeling. Report, Mister La Forge. In revenge, there never is. Let the dead rest. And the pastremain the past. Enterprise, lock on. Beam me home, Riker. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Now, you can pull it away. Because you'd already been there once before, probably themoment you arrived on the planet. That's when you found it. There is something I want you to see. Objection! Mister Worf, ready phasers. Minimum power. When? For how long? It's not in here. Hey, you, where's the artefact? Yes? Yes, yes, of course. Proceed, Mister Data. I need your help. I need the sign for the temple. For Masaka'stemple. Consequences? Q Yes, but he didn't take it very well. Go to Red alert. Sound general quarters. Mister Worf, how long before the stormreaches the outposts? You are not to blame. What happened appears to have been thework of onedesperate man. It may not reflect the feelings of the others. Of course. Of course. You're absolutely right. How will you proceed when you're there? Keep me advised. I don't see that you have to lose anything just by adding aconvenience. Data, I would like to have been consulted. No, I'm not surprised. Its sun went nova more than a thousandyears ago. And the Ferengi pod, Commander? Stand by, Mister Worf. Have your ship lock on to your peopleand beam them out of there before something happens. Bridge, this is the Captain. Request emergency power toinitiate lab quarantine seal. Yes. You'll have to call again. I'm just leaving. I'm not dressedproperly. I'll be back.  LEECH You know full well I hadn't even met Beverly then. Youintroduced them. Forget it. Engage. Transporter, prepare to beam Commander Riker aboard the Pagh. What can I do? What is wrong with me? Of course. You knew this would happen, didn't you? Q What's going on? And if the doors are closed, then the backwash from the rocketswill spill into the power grids and there'll be an overload. Data, can you tap into their computer and clarify thesituation? Somewhat. Back us off, Ensign. Nice and slow. RO Give me the sign. Very well, Ensign. Will you report to Sickbay. Doctor Crusherwill explain. And Ensign Sito, I must ask you not to discuss thismission with anyone. And I've been wondering if they were the right ones. Sometimes I feel we've allowed our positions to isolate us. If you wanted to run tests on Kahless, you should have sent aKlingon ship for him. Picard to Transporter room three, energise. Ah, and that's why you weren't affected. Might there be some side effect of Cairn telepathy of whichwe're unaware? Freeze. Arkaria Base, this is Captain Picard. Deactivate the baryonsweep immediately! If we had clear evidence. You mean it's complete? Is Doctor Pulaski there? It would be risky to set a trap here, so close to Federationspace. But the fact remains, here we are, there is no freighter. Didyour contact tell you anything else that might be helpful? That will be the day. I see I understand that you've been recommended for the Opsposition. Do you think you're up to it? Commander Riker! Number One, handle the transporter. Go. Well, Starfleet keeps me very busy. We need your help. The situation is not good. Must have been terrible when the colony was fighting for itslife. It's hardly simple, Data, to negotiate a friendly agreement forStarfleet to use the base while at the same time snoop around findinghow and why the life form there built it. Mister Data, you are our resident honour student in exobiology. I'm assigning you to head up theLife Sciences on this mission. The concept of the four cardinal compass directions is quitecommon in many different cultures. Riker says the planet's life forms are almost identical to us. Admiral, I can explain. This is Captain Picard aboard the Starfleet vessel Enterprise. Please do us the honour of visiting our vessel. Picard here. Go ahead, Doctor. Well take all the time you need. Mister Worf, prepare a photon torpedo. Fire at the enemy vesselwhen ready. How soon will you be ready? Make it so, Mister La Forge. What kind of place is this, Data? Impudence? No, not until we reach the Pacifica conference, three days fromnow. Doctor, have you prepared a Sickbay facility toaccommodate our guests? I'm fine, Doctor. Save your ministrations for your patient. Iwant a staff meeting in five minutes. Doctor, I assume you will want toremain here. When he's finished we'll have to move away and make it looklike we've scanned the asteroid but haven't find anything. The Borg will die if they're removed permanently. Their brainsgrow dependent on the biochips. Time to intercept? On screen. Keep hailing them. All channels, Mister Worf. Doctor Crusher is seriously hurt. We can't contact theEnterprise. The communicators are out. Computer, security override request. Transporter room, do you have lock on the away team? For now, Hayne's Coalition is our only safe access to thecolony. We'll keep the door open, see where it leads us. Thank you, Lieutenant. Report. I believe the Ambassador is extremely fond of Mozart. What? And this is the only way? It's a trap. Comeon. Commander. We will reconvene on the Enterprise, wherein Governor Leka has intercepted us before we reach her planet inorder to update us on the situation. None that I can see. There doesn't seem to be a way around. We'll have to rappelfrom here. This is sheer granite. We'll have to use fusing pitons. I think I need to talk to a parent. There is an alternative, Tomolak. We each know why we're here. We could each send one ship into the Neutral Zone to investigate theanomaly in the Devron System. Data, how can you be programmed as a virtual encyclopedia ofhuman information without knowing a simple word like snoop? Their raids have made this sector unsafe. They've ransacked ourresearch facilities, our trade routes have been disrupted. I'm on my way, sir. Mister Data, how close are you to completing the tachyon scan? Captain Varley died believing that it was. Everyone at ease. That's an order. Q, my people are in trouble. Let me help them, please. I'll do whatever you say. Q He's here, beside my First Officer. Do you wish to speak to himnow? Very bitter. Go on. You heard the order, Mister Lynch. Make it so. Welcome home, Mister Worf. Reset phasers to stun. Pipe it through. Come. I've already told you that twice. Yes, yes, Mister Data, I am aware of that. Damn him, anyway. After all we've been through together. He'sbeen sitting behind that desk too long. One's available? You've won yourself a rare opportunity. Avail yourself of it. Understood. Ensign, set a course. Were there any indications of reactor core problems while youwere on the station? May I offer you some refreshment? Yes. I realise that it's difficult, but we must keep to ourselvesquestions regarding the future. Go on, Professor. So you brought me here because you didn't want to face himalone. I trust him completely. But everyone should also realise thatthat was a necessary and legitimate security question. Well done, Mister La Forge. In what regard? I hope I've not embarrassed you, Ambassador. Status report, Number One? Last year, all you cared about was mathematics. The year beforethat, botany. Now JR Leave us! We've passed your little test. Q What I want to know is why? You seemed so happy just a fewhours ago. Valedictorian? Arms raised in victory? Were you so jealous? You never intended to burn that second disc. If you had, youwouldn't have been so careless as to allow Sovak to salvage any of it. You wanted him to follow us, so that he could see for himself that theUthat wasn't at the cave site. That was the only way he could beconvinced that your quest had been futile. Return to the ship immediately. Yes. Soon. Have they found us? It is the way in which we propagate our species. Irrelevant. That's a very human perspective, Will. For a Klingon in Worf's position, his life is over. But we must agree to an arbiter. Go ahead, Number One. AlkarALKAR And do what? Oh? It's my pleasure, Number One. Let's get a little more information first. Good. As long as they're looking for us, they won't hurt anyoneelse. Cancel Red alert. Mister Worf, adjust the sensors to compensatefor the distortion. You should have listened to me at the beginning. Thank you, Number One. Firing impulse engines. Yes, Lieutenant? Have you heard of a woman named Kahlest? They very nearly did. Mister Locarno made an impassioned pleafor the rest of you. He said that he'd used his influence as squadronleader to convince you to attempt the Kolvoord manoeuvre and then tocover up the truth. He asked to take full responsibility. We're ready anytime. Transporter Chief, beam the away team directly to the Bridge. Well, I felt that you would be needed here. Why do you ask? Ensign Crusher, take us out of orbit and set course forXanthras Three, warp factor six. Mister Worf, are you certain that this is the right decision? I think I can arrange that. Data, find the Pasteur. I havesome pull with the Captain. At least, I used to have. None, Lieutenant. None at all. Captain's log, supplemental. Since the newborn hasattached itself to the hull, it has been making greater and greaterdemands on the ship's energy, but we have been able to stabilise ourpower systems temporarily. I'm very sorry, Mister Leech, but we have to be going. Callagain tomorrow. I'm not sure. Mister Worf, what is my rank and position? You wanted to see me. Mister Barclay, I want you to stop this experiment for now. We have refrained from launching a counter-attack in the hopethat this can be resolved this peacefully. Data, tell me if. It's good to see you again. Then how do you explain Starfleet's report that the same testson the Ajax and on the Fearless over there, resulted in ameasurable increase in propulsion. You'll remain here. It's safer. Pressman? Yes, of course. You were Will's first commandingofficer, on the Pegasus. Hiccup? Because of Data's wonderful after-dinner conversation. Hisanecdotes are the stuff of legends aboard this ship. You were right, Tallera. The resonator cannot be stopped byphasers and shields, but it can be defeated by peace. Captain's log, stardate 47169.2. Security MinisterSatok has taken Tallera into custody and begun a search for the rest ofthe isolationists. I'm not sure that I concur with that reasoning, Doctor. But nowthat he's here, you must remove all memory of his encounter with theaway team. To what end? Extraordinary! And our memories of that day? You said Karnas was a proud man, Admiral,probably sensitive about his failure to deal with this situation. Is itwise to press him on this? On viewer. We may be dealing with irrational people, Data. Is there a wayto trace this? And all available personnel, including you and me, will beginto put together four man away teams. We'll leave a skeleton crew onboard the ship. Lieutenant? I take that to be a yes. But our spirit, it is indomitable. Make a full scan. I'm willing to entertain suggestions. Helm, set in warp one point five,retroactive course. Is there any way we can keep Bok from beaming aboard theEnterprise again? Now we know there's someone out there and they're asking forhelp. Any starships ever reported missing in this sector, MisterData? We're not friends. Q Strike? I'll see what I can do. I wanted to ask you about Amanda's biological parents. Whenthey decided to remain on Earth, what was the reaction in the QContinuum? Q I'm sure that after a while you'll be able to adjust. They saywhen one loses a sense, the other senses become stronger to compensate. A blind man develops better hearing. I know nothing about Minos Korva. Shields up. Warp nine. Course, one five one mark three three zero. Engage. It'll be good to have Counsellor Troi back, won't it, NumberOne? Give me a theory, Doctor. Anything. Madness? Mass hysteria? Delusion? Permission granted. Mister Burke, will you handle that? About space. About the universe you are preparing to enter. Mister Okona, you are free to socialise with the members of mycrew. I'm talking about a man named Debin. Commander Korris. Picard to Worf. Report. Admiral, if is passage narrows to less than five hundredmetres, I will abort the mission. You can charge me withinsubordination if you wish, but I'm not going to risk the Enterprisefor a salvage operation. On main viewer. Mask out the photosphere. Magnify. Quadrant oneseven, magnification factor twelve. Something else? Mister Data, is there any way to determine what the destinationof the parent might have been? Welcome aboard the Enterprise, Commander. I'm Captain Picard. This is Commander William Riker. He will be yielding the firstofficer's position to you during your tour. Why do you say that, Mister Data? Ambassador, the situation sounds so volatile. Perhaps a coolingoff period? Hold him steady. Let us negotiate in good faith. I can assure you that is not the case. We're doing everythingin our power to control them. Why didn't we suffered the same fate? Perrin, do you know why I've come to Vulcan? I must talk to youabout Spock. My name isn't Mot. It's Jean-Luc Picard. Try and raise her, Mister Crusher. Tell them we're only minutesaway. The breach never happens. Have you made this offer to Orta? RO How slow? Data! That was very foolish. Tea, Earl Grey, hot. I'm sure this whole thing is as much asurprise to you as it is to me. I really want to be honest with you,Jason. I only knew your mother for a very short time. I would haveliked to have known her better. It just didn't work out that way. Youlook a lot like her, you know. It's the eyes, I think. I would like tomake one thing clear, Jason. Your mother never told me about you. Ifshe had, I would have been part of your life. Good. Activate the transporter. He's comparing the Enterprise to a cruise ship? Picard to Doctor Crusher. He's the best. On screen. Data, you must realise that something hashappened to you. The Data I know would never have agreed to be awilling party to Lore's plan. Is it working? Indeed. Ambassador, I will ask our Chief Security officer,Lieutenant Worf, to make a report I believe it is. I just purchased that. Why? Are you implying this has somespecial meaning? Tholl, I asked her to open the door. Ensign, set course for Station Nigala Four. Would you try to answer some questions for me, no matter howstrange they may seem to you? Of course you are concerned, Gul Macet. It is precisely becauseof that fact that I have included you in every aspect of our effort. You're present with my staff. You're hearing reports as I hear them,nothing edited, nothing withheld. Excuse me. Put him through here. Commander Riker. I wanted toinform you that we'll be delayed in picking you up at Farpoint Station. Number One? I discovered long ago that she has a special wisdom. I'velearned to trust it. I could arrange for you to speak with her if youwish. We may have to stretch it. Shaka. You said that before. When I couldn't build a fire. Isthat a failure? An inability to do something? Some kind of reaction to our phaser fire, perhaps. Come. Could we have? Perhaps in the short term. But to what end? Hold. Beverly, the Prime Directive is not just a set of rules. It is aphilosophy, and a very correct one. History has proved again and againthat whenever mankind interferes with a less developed civilisation, nomatter how well intentioned that interference may be, the results areinvariably disastrous. You requested this posting? Apparently, the Yridians knew more about the Professor's workthan we do. They may have known what these numbers mean. You'll have to deal with me, Karnas. Whatever you wanted fromJameson isn't possible any more. And you wanted revenge. You blamedyour war on him, and there's no doubt he had a lot to do with it. Butyou had the weapons and you used them. You could have tried fornegotiations for peace on your planet long ago. Instead you chose tofight. How many of those forty years of civil war are on your head,Karnas? Counsellor? Counsellor Troi? Ensign Ro, may I see you in my Ready room? RO Please do. And Number One? Everything about this seems wrong. What? You've made a mistake. 1 I suppose I have little choice. Where'sRiker? Number One, I don't believe that the location of the crash andthe proximity of the creature is a coincidence. If we can see them, why they can't see us? What comm. contact have we had with them? She was born to do this. Before we begin, we want to see thechildren. Computer, stop at next level. Computer, acknowledge. Report. Where is he? Anna! Are we losing our professional detachment, Doctor? Captain Maxwell, you have disobeyed a direct order. No. I did not. Perhaps we have a poltergeist. You're wrong, Chorgan. We've agreed to have some brandytogether. I'm not surprised. Mister Worf to my Ready room. Captain. Now what possible incentive could anyone offer me to allowthat? This is some greeting, old friend. Fire. Ensign, what's our at the planet? I appreciate your caution. In the like vein, I want a complete,detailed manifest of everything you intend to bring on board my ship. Is it possible we've fallen into the same snare that killedthem? A thousand year old booby trap? Who are within their rights to demand the removal of thesetrespassers. Then let's proceed. Come. Nella. Too bad. I rather enjoyed the idea. Of that, I have absolutely no doubt. What about his file, Lieutenant Yar? Could he have accomplishedthe reprogramming that Data says took place? They will be coming. Yes. It's exactly as I explained it in the log records. Proceed, Mister Data. Come. Resume heading to Pacifica, warp factor eight. Number of casualties? Computer, end programme. Granted. I would log that agreement as promising, at least. Why didn't we detect it before? Very well. Who are you? He was here in this room. I could have rid the Federation of amortal threat, and I let him go. Familiar, yes, but I can't represent your peoples' interests. Troi, would it be wise to remove Jeremyfrom his cabin? Welcome aboard. I'm Jean-Luc Picard. This is Counsellor Troi,Lieutenant Commander Data, and this is Lieutenant We must have triggered something left over from the Erselropewars when the arms business was booming. It sounds as if it were a very lonely time for you. Very well. Advise him that we will transport sown to thesurface immediately. Ambassador. You are hereby requested and required to take command What about his skin colour? Darwin Station, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USSEnterprise. Beverly, what's happening? Please do. Put it on main viewer. Well, tell me a little about yourself, Crewman. I know you wereborn on Mars Colony. If that is your judgement, so be it. We are here to providewhatever service you require. Why do you pack them? What logical purpose do they serve? Doctor, you are endangering yourself and the away team. Once this Maddox has got control of Data, anything couldhappen. I don't trust that man. Q, stop this. Magnify. There will be other treasures to be found, Vash. What now? Please. Shields up. Starfleet has sent a message asking us to proceed to the Phelansystem to negotiate a trade agreement. Slow to impulse. Risk? It's nothing, it's superficial. What happened to Deanna? Counsellor, I wanted to ask you about thecrew. How are they reacting to our sudden change in course? We're on our way, Chief. No. Kahlest? How is Leah? I give you my word. When we arrive at the Starbase, I will makeevery effort to find him. Just throw on any old thing. We're about toget our first look at the wormhole. You know, we'd should be getting along to Ten Forward. We'regoing to be late for the concert. Data, pick up Whalen. Take him to Sickbay. I'm sorry. You don't belong on that ship, Lieutenant. We've discussed that. We are studying means of bringing hersafely off the holodeck. But five hours is not enough time. I know that I'm an old man and I'm out of touch, but the Worfthat I remember was more concerned with things like honour and loyaltythan rules and regulations. But that was a long time ago. Maybe you'renot the Worf once I knew. Consider it done. And so all alone you decided to dispose of the treaty. Phaser. Destroy the sphere. Destroy the sphere. Quite right, Number One. Or should I say, John Little. As are we. For what it's worth. But why would a generator be affecting the Enterprise this way? Jean-Luc Picard. Go ahead. Where is my security chief! Get me Lieutenant Yar. Our next assignment is on this heading? Do you mind thinking of something else. You're making mehungry. Computer, what happened? No, but the battle was won. But that knowledge was passed down by the descendants of thosewho attacked this world. The victors invariably write the history totheir own advantage. There is an unfortunate tendency in many culturesto fear what they do not understand. It's possible that their enemies,confronted with this technology, were driven to attack the Iconians outof fear. We need more time. Mister Data, prepare the colonists for anevacuation. Well, soon she'll be ship-shape and Bristol-fashion. It's unclear. We're running a full analysis. I'm really very sorry about what happened in the turbolift. When the crewmember walked in, I felt very self-conscious. It's goingto take a while for me to get used to the idea of crew seeing the twoof us together. Now! Isn't that my speech, Number One? No, of course you're right. We must not get involved. This is Captain Jean Luc Picard, commander of the Federationstarship Enterprise. If you continue to violate the cease fire, Iwill abort this mission. 1 I can believe it. We cannot make Mister Data our priority. Tea? Earl Grey. Hot. If your intent is to intimidate, you are not succeeding. Engage. No. The holodeck has been able to give us woodlands and ski slopes,figures that fight and fictional characters with which we can interact,but you, you're very different. You adapt. You spoke to me in French. They were victorious. But Enkidu fell to the ground, struckdown by the gods. And Gilgamesh wept bitter tears, saying, 'he who wasmy companion through adventure and hardship, is gone forever. First Officer's log, supplemental. Despite the riskof war, I have no choice but to break the stalemate. Can we speak to Data directly or would that wake him up? Yes, but they may not realise that we're communicating throughlanguage. Are its weapons systems active? What are you talking about? I can't. I assume the work is progressing on the conference room? Their priorities seem to have changed. Open. Impressions, Number One? These officers are here to assist you. Not judge, help you. Youshould make use of them. They are a valuable resource. And by the way,I respect an officer who is prepared to admit ignorance and ask aquestion, rather than one who out of pride will blunder blindlyforward. We are. Mister Worf, hail the Romulan flagship. Unfortunately, that would take several hours. We don't have thetime. Lore. Well, they're alive now. We're going to have to treat them asliving human beings. He was alone down there for a long time. I'm hesitant to lethim go back until he's been evaluated. An explosive device at the mission site. She died instantly. Request an explanation of your actions, DaiMon Goss. But if that presumption is correct, then we could havesustained other damage. Um, Computer, status report. Yes, yes, Data, I know about the Orient Express. But what is itdoing on Prospero's Island? This is one of those times when we must face the ramificationsof the Prime Directive and honour those lives which we cannot save. Set course for the site of the shuttlepod explosion. Warpeight. In God's name, where did you learn to fight like this, man? Computer, turn off that noise! Computer, what was that? And that's a big advantage on this mission. Very well. MisterData, will you contact Holza, arrange a meeting? Conn, where are you headed? Oh, no, you are not. Make it so. If this works, we may not have much time to preventthe power transfer. We'll have to decide precisely where to be and whatto do the very instant that time begins to move backwards. Captain's log, supplemental. After placing themodified tricorder on the Romulan ship, we have returned to theEnterprise. We'll take it here. Computer, what is the time? Mister Kurland, I assume you can manoeuvre it home? Fire the photons. No! This weakness disgusts me! I hate it! Where is my logic? Iam betrayed by desires. I want to feel. I want to feel everything. ButI am a Vulcan. I must feel nothing. Give me back my control. He is eighty five years old, Doctor. For some, the memorybegins to fail. Ah, yes. Well, it's a very intriguing drama, but I really don'thave the time it would take to learn a part. And anyway, I'm not muchof an actor. What's the cause? Horses? I was in the neighbourhood. When I asked the Professor why hewent all the way to Kurl, he said, I was in the neighbourhood. Doingwhat? Picard to Bridge. I will deal with Mister Data at another time. Meanwhile, I willhave to write this incident into your permanent record. Back where it belongs? I thought you might find this interesting, Mister Crusher. Fewhumans have ever seen an Antedean in the flesh. What about the defence system Mrs. Manheim spoke of? Turn them over to Quinteros. There will be a hearing. Lieutenant Worf's question is valid. That grid, their wounds. Only the Q can do that. Captain's log, stardate 41591.4. Twelve minutes outfrom Quadra Sigma Three where the survivors of an underground disasterdesperately need our help. Aboard the Enterprise, First Officer WilliamT. Riker needs help nearly as badly. But this is a subject far out ofmy experience. Out of any human's experience. Is that everybody? And have you noticed how you and I are now on a first namebasis? Number One, Will, something has happened already. In time, Mister Data. When we're better prepared. Mister Crusher, fix coordinates onto that vessel. We'll justbeam the whole thing to a shuttlebay if we have to. Welcome aboard, Admiral.  I don't understand. This is not the way it's supposed tohappen. Maintain this position. I'll be in my Ready room. Q At your earliest convenience, Number One. I see. It doesn't matter. We will no longer be a source of amusement. Governor Torak, I apologise. I can see that you honestly didn'tknow what happened aboard the station. I will just have to take thismatter up with Gowron. I'm really sorry that we bothered you. Excitement? Spending in a damp cave? Chasing after something weshall probably never find? Perhaps because he's hoping to expose members of your movement. 2 Let's launch a probe into it. We managed to programme the holodeck inside the holodeck, anduse the same ruse that Moriarty used on us. Jared, tell your people, if the hostages are released, I amprepared to offer Federation assistance should this, this Ardra return. He's proved that he can get to us whenever he wants. Whydoesn't he do something? Stand ready at warp six, Ensign. Why? Because it offends against our sensibilities? It is notour mission to impose Federation or Earth values on any others in thegalaxy. That human-shaped robots need not be clumsy or limited. Youcertainly operate as well as we do, Data I do not deserve it. Look at me. Look at me. Feel the warmth ofmy hand, the rhythm of my pulse. I'm not a supreme being. I'm flesh andblood, like you. This hearing is convened on Stardate 44780 as a continuinginquiry into the activities of Crewman Simon Tarses. Mister Tarses, foryour own protection, I have assigned a counsel to you in the person ofCommander William Riker. Commander La Forge. A slight navigational error? Nearly half a light year past theNeutral Zone? Mister Data, advise the Astral Five annex. This should becatalogued and scheduled for retrieval. Thank you, Data. Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. I know you're doing your best, Doctor. You have no choice. Prepare to receive us. We're beaming onboard. Picard out. Cancel Red Alert. Tell Sovereign Marouk meet me intransporter three. Grand. Take a look at thecontainment module our Chief Engineer has designed. Fair's fair. And let's credit his science teacher, too. Don't confuse style with intent. Only a fool would questionCommander Riker's dedication to Starfleet and the men and women underhis command. He is simply the finest officer with whom I have everserved. That was personal. Acknowledged. What are we doing transporting Romulans on board the ship inthe middle of a battle? They don't have any weapons and that one looksinjured. If they were part of an invasion, then why are they unarmed? It doesn't make any sense. I want to know more about what happened down on Gravesworld. Lieutenant Selar, report to the Captain's ready room. Of course not. We are trying to locate Bok now. I want toconfront him, settle this matter. Here's what I propose. You can't stay onthe Enterprise, but I have arranged for us to rendezvous with the USSCharleston, bound for Earth. They will deliver you there. And for that, you need a sample. Respond? Respond to them? What does that mean? Yes, Chief Engineer. I think I understand. Do you have any idea what it was? No, I'm quite serious. You are both able negotiators, strongleaders. I'll do my best. You could say that. I've been invited to the annual StarfleetAdmiral's banquet. Dismissed. Captain's log, supplemental. We are approaching theValo system on the outskirts of Cardassian territory, where manyBajorans have resettled. Ready to beam down to the vessel? Go ahead, Doctor. My appreciation, madam. There are many parts of my youth that I'm not proud of. Therewere loose threads, untidy parts of me that I would like to remove. Butwhen I pulled on one of those threads it unraveled the tapestry of mylife. Thank you. We never did, Lieutenant. Q suspended time. Granted, but to go to them now after twenty years later and askthem to leave what is now their home. Something wrong? Lieutenant, I commend your diligence. However, I'm concernedthat you're working yourself too hard. This is not my life. I know that much. That's a complication. Maybe we should ask them to join us inthis. We are conducting energy output studies of the Mekoria Quasar. All systems normal. The ship is fully operational. Not every man. Have the boy brought to my Ready Room. I think we could all use a twelve hour layover. Besides, I'vejust received some personnel transfer directives. Priority matter, Can you locate them? RO That's right, now come on. Rather like the ancient oral historians on Earth. Oh, it's nothing. It's just a, just a mild headache. Thecorrect procedure, Ensign, would have been to signal the Bridge of yourfinding immediately. Because ship captains control their own vessels, young man! Thank you. Cancel Red alert, Lieutenant. Commander, we shallreturn your officer and escort your ship to the Neutral Zone. Agreed. We'll have Starbase Montgomery give us an independentreading. What was the diagnosis? As a matter of fact, I never met Will until he reported onboard at Farpoint Station. Oh, Lieutenant, you wouldn't complain even if you had cause. Who? Mister Data, as you are unaffected by hyperonic radiation, I'dlike you to go to the planet via shuttlecraft and commence evacuationprocedures. Yes. You can. But only I can command them. They follow myorders. We found that world uninhabited. The life forms we left therehad, had sought the challenge. At least, that is the basic reason. Hadsought the challenge of creating a new lifestyle, a new society there. Life on our world is driven to protect itself by seeding itself aswidely as possible. Yes, of course. Yes, you're not holding it quite right. May I? Perhaps we do. The Vorgons are time travellers. Now that theyknow where and when the Uthat can be found, they may very well comeback and try for it again. Mister Worf, you may have him confined. I don't know. Lieutenant Good hunting, Commander. It's certainly no joke. As you can see, we are physically quitedifferent from Malcorians. And, with your permission, I'm prepared toprove it to you. Oh, they will be detained by the Vulcan authorities for themoment. But they're also facing charges from the Klingons, theCardassians, the Ferengi, and at least seven other worlds. Idon't think we'll be hearing from them for a while. Number One, willyou set course for Starbase two twenty seven. I'll join you on theBridge shortly. This is what I want to do, but we have less than an hour. Good. Chancellor, I have made some fine ones in my time. Now, I mustask you, will you release my officer? I'm going to capture it. This is a worthy Federation competitors in the bidding, Leyorof the Caldonians. I know you will, Captain. Lieutenant Yar? Now, Mister Worf! Now! By whose calculations? Q But he wouldn't have died alone and afraid. Promise me you will try and stay out of trouble. Very shortly, anywhere will be preferable to this room. MisterWorf, I am depending on you. You must get Data back to the Enterprise. He may be their only hope. The last time that I stood here was seven years ago. Q Worf. Q And now, with typical Ferengi logic, he's convinced that theTox Uthat belongs to him. Mister Data, you're a clever man in any time period. Helm, layin a course for the centre of the anomaly and prepare to initiate astatic warp shell. Transporter Chief, do you have their coordinates? TransporterChief! Q I don't understand. That you were looking forward to meeting him. Crosis? How did you get that name? Bensen? Lieutenant, sometimes the moral obligations of command are lessthan clear. I have to weigh the good of the many against the needs ofthe individual, and try to balance them as realistically as possible. God knows, I don't always succeed. Picard. Why? Will that cause the destruction of mankind? Q Your strategy failed. On my orders, not before. Oh? Tell me, Number One, is the entire crew aware of this littlescheme to send me off on holiday? The preliminaries are over. All we need do now is escort theRomulan Ambassador to the final session. Standard orbit, Mister Crusher. Main Bridge. I am not Dixon Hill. I just look like Dixon Hill. I'll be right there. The bridegroom. Ensign, do we have him? Yes, Doctor. That will be your top priority. Very well,proceed. Bridge to Ten Forward. Now that we are moving the ship as yourequested, I would like to know the nature of the injuries to themembers of my crew. Yes. Lieutenant Worf and I detected the same scent when we bumpedinto your son at the Holodeck. Keep me apprised. Dismissed. Do you think this Ronin could be exerting some sort ofinfluence over her? That it's because of him that she's staying? An artificially created energy conduit? That could be anything. You shouldn't. Then you also know that Worf's life is at stake. Transporter room, have you been able toestablish a lock? I couldn't leave the Enterprise. But the offer raised in mecertain feelings of regret. That can be arranged. Mister Worf, arm phaserbanks and photon torpedoes. If Lwaxana Troi is not in my arms in tenseconds, throw everything you've got at the Krayton. She has been injured. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. Captain Shumar, when are you going to tell me who you reallyare? Come. Mister Data, report to detention cell three. Have they given any hint of what they've been waiting for? The Bajorans did not attack Solarion Four. I have come on an urgent mission from the Federation. I'mlooking for Ambassador Spock. Mister Worf? I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. representing a Federation of planets in this part of the galaxy. Canyou identify whoever or whatever you are? Make it so. In the meantime, Mister Data, I'll have to relieveyou of duty and confine you to your quarters. And for all your protestations of friendship, your real reasonfor being here is protection. Q He's not dead. How did you find it? I'm pleased. We will report as soon as our mission isaccomplished. Picard out. Isn't it possible the injuries were caused prior to hiscaptivity? Security just told me that he was longing for normal eyesight. That's a sudden yearning for that. Having Worf on board certainly has been. You must have some idea how things havechanged. What female are you referring to? Ensign. Now, where have you gone to, my friend? I just wanted to see if you were still listening. Then what would happen if the Enterprise C were to fly backthrough it? I doubt the warp bubble could alter computer records, or erasememories. Keep at it, Ensign, Mister La Forge. It's our only workingtheory for now. I'm afraid we're going to have to take a look in your vessel. Bridge. How do you suggest we proceed? Shuttle occupant, identify yourself. Q We may be able to assist you in recreating the events. Damage report! I promise you that when I leave this house I will never setfoot in it again. But the Enterprise will remain in orbit over theplanet. With reason. But that does not mean identical, however. AF. Just an acquaintance of mine. Wesley, if youmeet someone whose initials you might want to carve into that elm tree,don't let it interfere with your studies. I failed organic chemistrybecause of AF. No, I'm the first person you've seen in seven years. I'mbringing you the hope of leaving this place. Don't you think that youcould possibly be just a little confused right now? Myriap! Enough. Without cooperation we will get nowhere. I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation starshipEnterprise. Which means, of course How much time? I won't tolerate my crew being harassed anylonger. Among them Connor and Moira Rossa. Ensign Ro, set a course, bearing one eightseven mark one zero two, one quarter impulse. RO Visit their ship? Energise. Picard to Riker. And the wish to stay alive. Make it so. We've known one another for years. Tell me what you believe iswrong. Make it so. They will cripple your vessel and keep you here until theFerengi authorities arrive. You've got a lot deal of explaining to do. Your only hope is to turn Bok over to them and tell them that hedeceived you. Captain to. Wesley. Wesley Crusher, come in! I shouldn't be taking this trip at all. I should be back onboard the Enterprise. I'm afraid I don't know that one. I know. Frere Jacques. That'sa song I used to sing when I was at school. Patterson, do you know thatone? Good. It goes like this. Frere Jacques, Frere Jacques, dormezvous? Dormez vous? Come. On screen. No. Because for me, none of this will have happened yet. I realised that it was something else, and it wasn't right. Butalthough I would never act on it, I couldn't help the way I felt. Well, keep with it, Doctor. Starfleet has very importantbusiness for us as soon as the away team returns. I don't fancy theidea of my crew being infected. Structural status, Commander? Is this part of the same pattern? What? Wesley. Yes, I think he is. Good. Because I want to know exactly what you did. I want toknow how closely you are in communication with the alien, and whatyou've learned about it, and I want to know now. I can't not accept that. There must be some way that we canmake the Klingons listen. If we can only convince them The Cardassian vessel will not be boarded. You will transportyourself aboard the Enterprise Maintain. Mister Data? Ensign, where is Commander Data? Indeed. Data, would you consent to being examined by Commander LaForge? Come. Beverly. Nuria, don't be afraid. No one is going to harm you. Then in some earlier flesh and blood form they might haveshared our kind of values. Increase speed to warp one. No need to apologise, Ensign. We should have explained itbetter to you at your indoctrination. Well, Mister Data? Oh, no, Counsellor! Oh, no, Counsellor, I don't think so. Heneeds someone who is trained in these things. And this is the Bridge. Let's make this transfer with alldeliberate speed. Can you speak to it? Does it speak to you? Revenge. That's why he demanded you when he knew that you werestill alive. Well, you have the Bridge, Number One. Good. That's better. Now, if we're to accomplish anything Oui, au fond, nous sommes tous Parisiens. The spirit of thatcity can always enchant my soul. Turn the Enterprise into a lightning rod? Human? Mister Worf, now. All right, Mister Data. Oh, no, not at all. I'd be delighted. You were part of that colony. I didn't know that. But thenthere must be a lot of things about you that I don't know. Just as at one time you did not know how to weave cloth, how tomake a bow. On screen. It's the same Bridge. Nothing has changed. Channelling power to the main, er, deflector dish. How many people are down there? RO Visions? Do you mean dreams? No. Please go on. Go ahead. I'm not a family man, Riker, and yet, Starfleet has given me aship with children aboard. There is an M-class planet in this system. Can we reach it? Ready phasers. Load forward torpedo bays. Engage. How could they have found out about the rendezvous, Commander? And now you propose to dismantle him. Your point, Doctor? If you wish to undertake a mission with obvious repercussionsto the Federation, then you should discuss it with the Federation. I'mhere as their representative. You'll have to discuss it with me. Do you think so, really? I wonder which of them was made first? Anything would help. Well, there you are. We start rehearsals tomorrow. New heading. two eight four mark zero one three. We're discussing the Ferengi. I wish I had some clue as to whatthey will do next. Transporter Room, stand by. Of that you can be sure. Good luck. I assume that you must be Lieutenant Commander Daren. You know, I think you were right after all. I think I did comeback so that you could help me. Bridge, Picard. So you were prepared? So what brings you here? Warp eight. Whenever Starfleet gets enigmatic, I know we'reabout to face a challenge. Engage. fragments? Doctor, return to the intermittent signal. Mister Worf, are we in firing range? Understandable. Penny, er, do you think we could just talk for a while. I don'tknow anything about you. Where you're from, what your interests are,your last name. Perhaps I have not made myself clear. You have the wrong man. Data, I want you to sever the contact with Drema Four. It's a trade, an exchange. When can you correct the problem? This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation starshipEnterprise. I speak as a Starfleet officer, and I cannot ignore the risksto you. Shields up. Stand by phasers. Damage report. Governor, with your permission, I would like to take thisweapon back to the Enterprise to verify its origin. Reduce to impulse power. We've got long trip. We will. But I was under the impression there was a cease fire agreement. I wish to be candid with you, Ensign. RO I saw no need. Damaged? Report! We have unfinished business there. I need to have a talk withthose two people. You have the Bridge. And you are? Proceed, Mister Data. Well, Doctor. Your next task is clear. Please come to my Ready room. Set them for a display blast a thousand metres short of theplanet's surface. I care. Which is why I must see them. Damn it. I can't even make a log entry. I'm trying to be considerate of your feelings, Doctor. For youto work with a commanding officer who would continually remind you of aterrible personal tragedy. Beverly. Crusher. Doctor. Put out a repeating message on all subspace channels, priorityone communiqué. Break off your pursuit immediately. Mister Data, who is real here? Counsellor, I want you to look through the personnel files ofUtopia Planitia. See if you can recognise any of those faces. Are you saying we should give them the samples theyrequire? I would like to get under way as soon as possible. Thesituation on Garadius Four is becoming serious. More ambience. Less substance. Your devotion to duty is admirable, Commander, but DoctorCrusher is right. You will remain on the Enterprise until we knowwhether or not this is connected to the disappearance of the others. Yellow Alert. On screen. Thank you, Mister Data. Well, where the hell are we? You flatter me Professor, but I can't help but wonder whatcould possibly have caused you to select me as the subject of yourstudy. Even in this decade, there are far wiser and more experiencedhumans in and out of Starfleet. Did you know it is now possible to predict the configuration ofa star system which won't be formed for another two million years? At least we won't begin with weakness. Attention Ferengistarship! This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. In thename of the United Federation of Planets, I demand you return the T9energy converter you removed from Gamma Tauri Four. Send that in alllanguage forms. Commander, will you escort Miss Rogers to her quarters? I needto discuss the Tagran's medical needs with Doctor Crusher. And MissRogers? We will proceed with the probe. Oh, yes, and now we must leave you. You will have to help me in the pronunciation of this scroll. This equipment will have to be confiscated. Certainly not. I see. There are one hundred and three members of thescience team on Ligos Seven. We should prepareshuttlebay three for a triage centre in case they have large numbers ofcasualties. Strange, that an obscure planet several hundred light yearsfrom here should be picked up by the probe. Data, did you take thisimage from the ship's library and programme the probe to send it backto us? Just a routine medical checkup. Ship's regulations. But that, too, would be interference. You must progress in yourown way. Yes you should, but you didn't. Instead you joined with theothers to pretended that was simply an accident. Now, what do you thinkthat tells me about your character? Mister La Forge? Full shields. So do I, Number One. Captain's log, stardate 45021.3. ConvincingStarfleet Command to establish a blockade was relatively painless. Implementing that plan is proving more troublesome. We are preparing to do so. And, Captain, you're getting a fineofficer. Yes. Yes, thank you. But I find I'm having to rediscover thatthis is really my home. Come. Ah, Number One. Look at this. Ever since we left the LimaSierra system, I have been puzzling over how the third planet couldmaintain such an orbit, when it is theoretically impossible. Butconsider this. What happened to the test ship? Will the object in the cargo bay survive that long? Kevin and Rishon. Mister Data, will you please note in the ship's log that thisaction is being taken over my explicit objections. Your threats are meaningless now. Congratulations, Doctor. This is an amazing achievement. No. Worf can deal with anything that might arise. How's yourpatient, Doctor? But surely, to present yourself in this condition is not goingto help our cause. And that won't be known until combat begins. You're right,Data. It does sound like a joke. With the power of the Enterprise, wecould overwhelm this place easily, just take what we want. Yes, I believe he does, Data. Why? Number One, assemble your team. There. Now, Number One, we need a crew to help us get thathatch off. Don'tyou think that Jay here would make an excellent science officer? Whatdo you say, Jay? Will you join our crew? What would it be like, Counsellor? No ship, nobulky spacesuit. Just to live between the stars, have the entire galaxyas a home. Counsellor? Are you all right? Counsellor, perhaps you'd better go along as well. The Romulans have always wanted to destroy the alliance betweenthe Federation and the Klingons. If Mister La Forge had killed you,Governor, I think you would agree, they might have succeeded. Warp eight. Yes, of course. There's little or no damage on the Bridge, Doctor. Make it so. Where are we going? Please. This is important to me. I believe that I can do more. No, of course not. Lieutenant, security alert two. Geordi, you don't make the trip from Rigel Three to Earth justto drop by. Lwaxana, we have quite a bit of work planned. Position? This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation StarshipEnterprise. Until then. I hope he will tell us soon. IAN I shall want an answer to that. I'm sure the Tanugans will too. We'll discuss your situation with Captain Endar. Introns? We're aware of the risks. Energise. No signs of phaser burns on the hull. Transporter room four, prepare to beam aboard from inside thatshuttle anything large enough to be a humanoid adult. This is not a Borg identification. And so the upshot is that we'll be close enough for you to slipaway for a few days and see Wesley. Yes. Both of us. Now, if you will help me to get to theshuttle. Ow. Computer, this is Captain Picard. Initiate a metallurgical analysis of the ship's hull. Subspacefield incursions may have left a trace. You have a problem with that heading, Lieutenant? In what way? As far as I know, I'm perfectly healthy. Actually, it came in handy. I only wish I'd had the opportunityto use it on a horse. Kataan. Not a Federation planet. I think I'll just take a walk. But without me you are not complete. I know you so well. Youlive for the chase, as do I. Will you not miss being the hunter,pursuing me, forcing me from the sky so that you can rise again? I'm not happy about this use of a Betazoid. What do you suggest we do? JR Ladies and gentlemen, it is a Starfleet tradition that atsocial gatherings, disputes are not permitted. I hereby declaretherefore all disagreements resolved. Lwaxana, I'm sorry, but whatever my personal feelings, I haveno jurisdiction here. I simply cannot interfere. The Lieutenant's sensors detected a temporal distortion almostin our current course. There's a small object back there that wasn'tthere a few moments ago. All right. At first you dismissed it. But then you began tounderstand that there was something that was different about them. Beverly? Explanation? Make it so. In the meantime, Mister Data, I suggest that youshould prepare for bed. Commander Riker, we're ready. Keep monitoring their approach. Repeat the hail every half anhour. Agreed. Mister Worf, what would be the impact of lowering theshields long enough to get the away team out? Picard. Velocity dropping. Thermal shields at full power. Any signs of other Klingon vessels? Lieutenant, you are a member of this crew, and you will not gointo hiding whenever a Klingon ship uncloaks. I'm fully aware of your Starfleet record, your problems onother ships, and the incident on Garon Two that led to your courtmartial. And I'm concerned about your presence on this delicatemission. RO I'll be right there. Well, it's true, I have been preoccupied. I know that's notvery flattering to you, but I have been thinking about us. And aboutthe choices I've made. Ensign, after we've passed through thewave, I want you to take us at a relative position twenty threekilometres in front of it. Yes, I admit I probably would. And perhaps I should re-evaluatethat behaviour. How do you account for this discrepancy? I noticed that too, Counsellor. I had the distinct impressionof in the presence of a flim-flam artist. Well done, Mister La Forge. Away team, now. What is happening? Frankly, it's difficult for me, for many of us, to easilyaccept that a sentient being can live only to be what someone elsewants them to be. Obviously you feel it's something we should look at morecarefully. May I ask you a frank question? I know, Counsellor. She is trying to put an end to all that. We were traveling at warp two through the Maxia Zeta starsystem when this unidentified starship suddenly appeared and fired onus, point-blank range. That may not be possible. Escape? My reports to Starfleet document the circumstances in each ofthose instances Then the only alternative would be a stalemate. Maybe acompromise might have been reached, a compromise that forced Data intothis silence. She was trying to help you.! Proceed. Bridge. JR But the risk is Get us to the Enterprise. Drop to impulse, Ensign. Mister Worf, maximum shields. Readyall weapons. You have the Bridge, Mister Data. I didn't want anything to happen to you. You're far tooimportant to me. In what way? Agreed. There's not an outpost in this area could defend itselfagainst a Klingon warship. All that remains is the possibility of communication. Theremight be some way that we can warn them of their impending destruction. Picard to Bridge officers. We're approaching the Devidiasystem. Report to your stations. Has it been that apparent? How well you know me. Just pilot the shuttle, Ensign. We are still investigating that. As soon as No, it's not important. And prosper. Captain's log, stardate 45240.1. To cross theNeutral Zone, I will require a cloaked ship. To that end, I have set acourse for the Klingon home world. After all we did for Gowron duringthe recent war, I am certain he will be happy to return a favour. And your search led you to me? On the contrary, I have no wish to discuss issues of propertyor of territory, when our mutual problem remains. Like it or not, weare both trapped by this energy draining forcefield from the planet. I'll tell you what I see. If I find Toral's challenge valid,the two of you will very quickly gain control of the Council and Gowronwill be found dead shortly thereafter. If I reject Toral's claim, youwill accuse me of serving Federation interests. It will serve as arallying cry to declare war and overthrow Gowron. What is it? Acknowledged. We proceed with the plan. I know who you are and what you've done. Warp two, Ensign. Anything from Gowron? I am taking it as such. Counsellor. You have the Bridge, NumberOne. I want something that will really help. Mister Mandl, an attack on one of my crew gives me the right. They're waiting for us back at Sherwood Forest. I don't know. Tell Data and La Forge to do themselves a favour, and stay outof their way. You mean a Tyken's rift. I doubt it. But you still know how to work it. RO I insist we do whatever we can todiscourage the perception of this new android as a child. It is not achild. It is an invention, albeit an extraordinary one. And elates us. We wish you could understand the gloriousadventure ahead. Then take us out of orbit, Number One. Set a course forRachelis, warp six. He looks almost proto-human. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Archaeology Council. Welcome. Mystery. It is the mystery of Tagus Three that brings ustogether today. It is a mystery that has invited more argument, morededuction, more speculation than the best works of fiction. And ifyou'll excuse the conceit, I want to tell you about my detective story. For several years now, I have been trying to unravel the secrets ofTagus Three. Bring us out of warp, Ensign. All stop. The pleasure of your company is requested,Counsellor. We're having a little impromptu reception for the arrivingdelegates. What? Very well. You know, Geordi, I spent the better part of my lifeexploring space. I've charted new worlds, I've met dozens of newspecies. And I believe that these were all valuable ends in themselves. Now it seems that all this while, I was helping to damage the thingthat I hold most dear. You may take whatever action against him you feel isappropriate. I consider the matter closed. Screen off. You have the Bridge, Mister Data. He wants to do something nice for me. Do we have a problem, Doctor? A message? Well, at least you got rid of the damn pipe. Data, I'm going to give you a most unusual order. I'm not surethat you will be able to integrate it into yourprogramme. Data? And, Ensign. I do know why you ended up on the Enterprise. Iasked for you. I wanted to make sure that you got a fair chance toredeem yourself. It may turn out that the moral thing to do was not the rightthing to do. Go ahead. RO So the entire ship has been affected. I'm sure that's true. However, given the circumstances, I wouldprefer to make the initial contact myself. I'm sure you would, if thesituation were reversed. Well, Number One? Would you come here. There's something I want to show you. The tractor beam. Has Mister Barclay done anything that could be consideredpotentially threatening? Computer, explain control malfunction. I could give you safe passage to a transporter pad in one ofthe cargo bays. Report. I see. How is he? A static warp shell. It could repair the barrier and collapsethe anomaly. Very good, Mister Data. Now we know where he's headed. And Commander Riker's introns are changing him into whatappears to be one of the earlier hominids. Ensign Allenby, full stop. Lieutenant? Engage. Very well. Five hundred kph. Ensign. Engage. Mister Crusher, put us into close orbit. Mister Data, scan. Myapologies, Mister Worf. Scan the colony's subsurface water. She has your full confidence? I believe we've met. The Altairian conference. If we can't correct it we may have to reverse course and leavethe nebula. So what am I going to do? Lock myself in a room in all threedifferent time periods? How much longer will it be? Geordi? They are security officers from the twenty seventh century. They're here to take back the Uthat. They look like cellular clusters. If force is necessary, we will use it, but that will mean wehave failed. Our goal here is to establish some kind of relations withthe Romulans. If we don't succeed, then to convince them of ourresolve. The general feeling at Starfleet is that they are seeking aconfrontation. They may want to test themselves in battle against aFederation starship. See how far we have advanced. If that is the case,then I need to know it. Counsellor, I shall need a full profile onthem. I'll talk with the Brekkians. Mister La Forge Reverse course, Ensign, three hundred kph. What information do you want? I don't understand the question. Is something wrong, Commander? How old is the boy now? Report. Yes. And, as it would seem we're in for a relatively quiettime, I shall use this opportunity to visit the Hatarian System. Thereare some ancient ruins that are just being excavated. Take us out of orbit, Mister Crusher. At your convenience. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Irrational? Unless it's followed by? Yes, of course. Well, what is it, Wesley? Did Wesley's flight recorder indicate that there was anythingunusual about the ship or the way it was operating? Hailing frequencies, Mister Worf. I'll see what I can do. And now, if you will excuse me, I'msure the two of you have a lot to talk about. Picard to Data. Report to Shuttlebay two. Two's company. Sleep. Thank you, Lal. You're excused. Actually, we've made better time than I expected. Helm, full impulse. Head us out of the rift. Mister Worf,channel all available power to the structural integrity fields. In a moment, Doctor. Friendly or not, Salia has the rank of head of state, so wewill treat her and Anya accordingly. Number One, Mister Worf, let's gogreet our visitors. You have the Bridge, Mister Data. Mister Worf? Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. It was a strange sensation. Suddenly having these thoughtsappear in my mind. I read you, Commander. Go ahead. Admiral, would you care to join me for some late dinner? Mister Kurland. By the way, where is our new doctor? Has she reported in? Hold for my order. Picard to Riker. Indeed. Commander La Forge and Lieutenant Worf, escort ourguest to transporter room one. Voval! I thought you were dead. Under the circumstances, I thought that it would help if Ilearned more about you. Damage report. He knows. And more than that. On this mission he has beenconsciously holding Sarek's mind together as well as he could. Lieutenant. But tornadoes develop from existing storm fronts. But you see,there were no storm fronts in Kansas that day. Witnesses reported thatthe funnel materialised spontaneously directly over Amanda's home,destroyed it, and disappeared. Q Decades ago, light years away, What did you find, Data? You may speak. Sounds a little like a young lieutenant commander I oncerecruited as a first officer. The fact is, I wasn't expecting this setting. I had assumedthat my senior Bridge officers would be attending. I agree that's a risk, but I see no alternative. This is Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of the Enterprise. Aaaaardklaxon leeeeesss blag blan ar'nik ka'nik. Aaaaard krasulaaa. Rasssstrassss trasulaaaah. How serious is their condition? Reduce the input gradually, and still get him out before it'stoo late. It would be wise to consult Lieutenant Barclay Data, Data, Data. I don't know. From where? I think you are affected, sir, far more than you realise. Mister Data? Absolutely. What have you done to her? He's being held safely until sundown. Mister Worf, will you launch another probe. This time a ClassOne with full sensor array. Engineering, is that the forward limit? Counsellor! What's today's date? The date! But he is right. We are in their solar system. Open a channel. Perhaps they were hoping to find someone in Starfleet like you,Admiral, naive enough to solve their Bajoran problem for them. RO I met him once, many years ago, very briefly at his son'swedding. I can tell you that was quite a moment for a young lieutenant,standing in the presence of such history. I remember he spoke to me andI just stood there grinning like an idiot. I'm on my way. to take command of the Enterprise as of this date. SignedRear Admiral Norah Satie, Starfleet Command. In what way? Mister Worf, get a lock on him as soon as you can. Hail them. We cannot allow them China was thought to be only a myth until Marco Polo travelledthere. No, the Iconians were certainly real. Sit down. We know thatthree systems within this sector had a number of cultural similarities. Similarities which could only be explained by there being a singleunifying influence. Will, you're sound of mind and body. If you are properlybriefed, you will still be able to fulfill your duty. We'll do all that we can to help them but in the meantime Iwant them kept under surveillance. Bridge to biolab four. Alexander, can you hear us? We'll take the alien ship to the nearest Federation starbase. Ensign, lay in a course. Captain's log, stardate 45212.1. We have deliveredthe Ktarian vessel to Starbase eighty two and are now on a course torendezvous with the Starship Merrimack, which will transport WesleyCrusher back to Starfleet Academy. Well, that's takes care of this ward. Time to be moving on. But there'll be no atmospheric condensers. Look, Counsellor, I just feel that I'm not the right person forthis job. The Academy? Then we should locate a pregnant humanoid. Welcome to the twenty fourth century. Tasha, set coordinates to beam it back where it came from. What is it? Yes? It's us before we stepped into the turbolift. 2 Welcome aboard, Gowron. Yes. RO When Gowron begins his attack, then we willmake our move. Excalibur will fall back with engine problems. You willtake the Akagi and the Hornet to this position, which will open a smallgap in our detection net. What the Q has offered you has got to be close to immortality,Will. They're not lying about controlling space and time. We've seen itin what they can do. Leave the trilithium here and take me with you. You can use meas a hostage instead of threatening And the Romulans are suddenly very interestedin bonding with the Vulcans. Spock has been meeting with the new SenateProconsul about reunification. Take the helm, Mister Crusher. Set a course for thirtyseven mark one hundred eighty. Warp six. On screen. Is it another holographic device? Riva id deaf. These three speak for him. Treat them asinterpreters. Address yourselves directly to Riva. Now, may I presentmy First Officer. Number One, prepare am away team. Belay that order. There will be no further communication offthis ship without my prior authorisation. Commander, may I have a wordwith you? Mister Data, you have the bridge. What's your evidence? He was murdered. Poisoned. Go ahead, Commander. We read you. What was my answer, computer? Q Maintain course and speed. Mister Data, how long until we reachthe centre? But you couldn't. You were left alone. Wesley! Mister Worf. Here I am lecturing you on a conflict of interestwhile I'm desperately trying to avoid one of my own. Do you think Iwish to allow the Duras family to solidify their hold on the Council? Do you think I cannot see for myself the implications for theFederation? Good Lord, Duras tried to have me killed! All of myinstincts, my training, my very being as a Starfleet officer are atodds with my responsibilities as Arbiter of the Klingon High Council. We walk the same tightrope between two worlds, you and I. We must tryour very best to keep those two worlds separate, or we shall certainlyfall. On our way. Picard out. We'll get to the rest of the actanother time, Data. Computer, fileprogramme and clear. What are we looking at? You must tell me. What was it? You don't know what I'm talkingabout. You're locked into a single intent unable to change. Unable toalter any part of your previous actions. P2 Cancel red alert. Mister Worf, will you extend the appreciationof the Federation and my personal gratitude to the Klingons. Thank you. Enterprise, hold. It is imperative that you hold yourposition until we finish evacuating the colony. Picard out. But don't touch anything! Try it out. Thepanel on your right is for log entries, library computer access andretrieval, viewscreen control, intercoms, and so on. Here we have The important thing at the moment is that one of your ships maybe in jeopardy. Mister Worf, has there been any answer to ourcommunication? It's delicious. Thank you, Lieutenant. Mister Data, the nearest pulsar is inthe Lonka cluster, is it not? So, I understand that your homeworld hassome of the most spectacular crystal formations in this sector. Isthere any place in particular that you would recommend I visit whileI'm there? Come. Celebrating? It seems we're alive only because we have been placed onprobation. A very serious kind of probation. Go. Then I have another question. While orbiting, while circlinghigh above your world, as we do, we have encountered a strange object. A vessel perhaps. Have you any idea what it is? It's not entirely real. At least, it's not completely solid. Let's hear it. Change course to intercept. As ready as I'll ever be, Number One. Open hailing frequencies. You can try. It's never quite that simple, not even for a Vulcan. Certainlynot for Spock who is half-human. Years spent in conflict. And now thechance to resolve all of those differences is gone. There are many things about her species we can't easilyexplained. Yet it is very possible she is correct. A ship from the pasthas travelled through time. How can we know what effect those eventswill have on the present. Indeed, we shall never know for certain, ifGuinan is correct. But I have decided the consequences of thatpossibility are too grave to ignore. Dismissed. Doctor Crusher? Reinitialise them on my authorisation. What is it you wanted to see me about? Well, keep at it. I have to tell him that we are making someprogress. Mister La Forge. Do you have any idea how Moriarty could havegained control of the ship? The millions of people down there who are watching as theirmoon falls out of the sky. Q Go ahead. By all means. An elm tree with a circular bench? And her vital signs? Good. I have business there. I shall accompany you. Data. Please sit down, Mister Tarses. For the record, will you tellus your name and position? I assume that you're referring to Kahless. Agreed. But if the Duras are being aided by the Romulans, itbecomes very much our concern. The Romulans have been attempting todestroy the Klingon-Federation Alliance for the past twenty years. Atthe same time, the Duras have been secretly conspiring with theRomulans. Doesn't it strike you as odd that the Duras are able to fieldsuch an overpowering force against Gowron? That they outmatch him atalmost every turn? Thrilling. That was absolutely thrilling. And I was right, Number One. There were ghosts aboard that old ship. One of them actually spoke to us. Because I think he can help. If huts are better, why did you once live in caves? Status, Number One. Sovereign, if the situation were reversed, I'm sure you wouldbe demanding equal levels of representation. Come on, stay with me. Come on now, stay awake. That's anorder. I don't know. What I do know is, things will be different. Q All right? Geordi. What was that? Over to the left. No, we'll proceed to Farpoint. Commander La Forge. Please feel free to contact me at any time. Picardout. Readings, Data? Hardly, Number One. I am sorry to report your comrade's injuries are beyondour medical abilities. Report, Lieutenant. It would be hard to forget Mister Homn. Wesley, are you saying that you didn't want anybody to see whatyou were really feeling? What were you really feeling? Picard to Bridge. Report. I don't understand your concern, NumberOne. They're not authorised to make any alterations in our engines, andaccording to Starfleet's report, they will simply test different waysof entering warp speed and different intermix formulas. What's the harmin that? Data, scan analysis on main viewer. Damage report? Worf. Ah, I see. You, too, understand the proper value of women. On screen. Yes. Computer, this is the Captain! Computer, identify exit! Excellent, La Forge. Now let's, er, let's throw them off guard. Lieutenant Yar. Open hailing frequencies. Your point, Mister Data? Are you Jason Vigo? I apologise for interrupting yourcelebration, but I'm going to need an away team. Could you report tothe Bridge, please? As soon as we are secure of this rescue operation, I'll discussall of this new power Make it so. Number One, as soon as Data is ready, I want you tolead an away team. Data, what the hell is it? Data, visual on K'Nera. Doctor. Mister Data, is there anyone else on board who servedpreviously with Captain Benjamin Maxwell? Temba is a person? His arms wide. Because he's holding themapart in, in generosity. In giving. In taking. Well, Mister Tholl, all I know is that I've been brought hereagainst my will. Wherever here is. Stay with him, Counsellor. We're examining the Brittain forclues, but this man is the only one left who knows what happened there. Gone? Sleep, Data. A number of objects have been discovered missing in the lasttwo days, and if they're in your possession, then we would like themreturned. All hands abandon ship. Repeat, all hands abandon Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise hasentered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We are the firstStarfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region. Indulge me, Number One. Mister Crusher, how long would it take us to get there? There was no opportunity. There was no pause. He just kept talking in one long, incredibly unbroken sentence, movingfrom topic to topic so that no one had a chance to interrupt. It wasreally quite hypnotic. I don't know. How long have you served on board theEnterprise, Ensign? Status report, Number One? I don't know. But don't worry. As soon as they realise ourcommunicators are not working, the sensors will find us and Geordi willbeam us up. Now, just you hold on. I'm sorry about this. How can I find Korgano? Guilty. Provisionally. Q Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. He'd probably send us both to bed without our supper. The Romulans know that as well as we do. Thank you. Thank you. First Officer's log, supplemental. I am sending ashuttlecraft to find Captain Picard, gambling that the Tamarians willsit tight rather than risk an exchange of phaser fire. I said we would, Data. Thank you. Thank you very much. Doctor Crusher. Remarkable. Computer locate Tam Elbrun. If I try it, it will be at a time of my own choosing. Are you saying that's not the truth? Anything? That was not my question, Number One. What caused themalfunctions? There's something more. You're laughing, but actually you'reembarrassed by that incident. She is an Admiral. We don't have much time. He's getting more control of hisenvironment. Let's see if we can't beat Professor Moriarty by givinghim everything he wants. Fine, but don't leave her unattended. Your published writings have been sporadic for the last decade. Your appearance at symposia has been rare, or scheduled and thencancelled at the last moment. The finest archaeologist of the centuryis now shrouded with a cloak of mystery. No, so either Bok is wrong and I'm not the father, or Mirandadecided to raise the child alone, which quite frankly wouldn't surpriseme. She was very independent, very strong willed. Can you treat him? That's your real fear. Never to die. Neveragain to be united with those who left you here. She's a lady, all right, and her name is Enterprise. Because Bok appeared in my quarters last night. Now, it mightnot have been him. It may have been an image. We're investigating. Years ago, I was forced to destroy a starship commanded by hisson. Bok apparently feels that it would be fitting vengeance to kill myson. Yes. Let's pay a call, get some answers. Number One, MisterData. Mister La Forge, you have the Bridge. Oh. If you're right about this, how did it happen? How did we getthere? I understand. Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. The Enterprise. Is one of those things after my ship? Tell me. And that might overload the field diverters protecting our keysystems. How long until the new ones are in place? Mister Data, what's going on? I had this one Nausicaan down in this somewhat deviousjoint-lock when, unbeknownst to me, one of his chums drew his weaponand impaled me through the back. Curious sensation, actually. Not muchpain. Shock, certainly, at the sight of serrated metal sticking throughmy chest. A certain giddy warmth. In fact I do actually remember that Ilaughed out loud. Well, it pierced my heart, of course. Well, if we'dnot been so near to a medical facility, I would surely have died. Doctor Rabal? Unless you have any other options, yes, I think that's best. They don't trust me. They think that I'm behaving erratically. Yes, I do, but I would not act solely on the basis of herinstinct. What are our orders? Why is that? What is this cargo? When can you begin the process? Then make it so. Yes, I have, actually. I've thought about it for a long time. On screen. Doctor. What sort of markings? We'll wait here for months if necessary. We're just considering options. Computer, biographical file on trader Kivas Fajo. Yes, Mister La Forge? Go on. Where is Doctor Pulaski? Thank you. Mister Data, will you escort the Minister to the transporterroom? Chancellor. Warp without warp drive. Well, for your final mission aboard the Enterprise you willaccompany me to Pentarus Five while I try to sort out the problems withthe miners. Commander Riker has told me you've been studying theeffects of outpost judiciary decisions on Federation Law. What betterway to get first hand experience? Quite nice. Thank you. Any response from Aldea, Lieutenant? Picard here. jIlajneS. ghIj qet jaghmeyjaj. I accept. Permission granted. Make whatever arrangements you think areappropriate. Beverly, you can't just resign. There are some missing pieces to this puzzle. Lutan is a fortunate man. You've met Counsellor Troi. Despite your progress, you are a divided society, and so itwill remain until the Gatherers return to Acamar. So how do we cut the puppet's strings? What? RO Beverly, isn't it just a matter of time? I know how difficultit was for you being away. It's that important to you? Admiral. Hold fire. Mister Crusher, come about to course one four eightzero zero three. Excellent, Doctor. Explain. If our scans and observations confirm the report, of courseI'll approve it. Let's hope it is not too good to be true. Captain's log, supplemental. We are in orbit of aplanet designated Rubicun Three, the home of a life form who callthemselves the Edo. Our away team, including Wesley Crusher, has beameddown to make arrangements concerning some well-deserved recreation. Be careful. It's clear that he's frightened, but that's hardly anindication Ah. What were the analytical team's findings? Commander, proceed with Timothy as the Counsellor suggests. Freeze programme. Very well done, Data. Your performance skillsreally are improving. No. Captain's prerogative. This one's mine. We have examinedevery conceivable risk. Very well, Mister Worf. Fire. Perhaps we could climb together. I'm probably not as skilled asyou, but I'm not inexperienced. I'm the Captain of the ship. What is it you want? Red Alert. Open a channel to the warship. Very well. In the meantime, I'll speak with the KlingonGovernor about Commander Morag. That's because there is no a wormhole. There never was. I switched the transponder codes. Given his feelings about me,it seemed a sensible thing to do. You don't believe it? Get to it, Tomalak. In what respect? Frightening? Right. Move to within five kilometres. Mister La Forge, prepareto extend I understand. Picard to Doctor Crusher. Lieutenant La Forge? Engage impulse engines. Director Mandl, we've heard of your remarkableachievements in terraforming. My crew would very much appreciatelooking around. I'm glad to hear it. Mister Worf, can you beam him out of there? Can you bring her back? And if they're moving among humans, they must have taken onhuman form. But the question is, how do we know who we're looking for? Mister La ForgePICARD A spy. Corey, I'm not here to help you. I'm here to stop you frommaking a serious mistake. You're wrong. If you leave, the Enterprise will be destroyed. Don't you remember? You saw it happen. P2 Romulan vessel, you are now in Federation territory. Unless youwithdraw Be ready to stop the power transfer, MisterData. That sounds like Judge Aaron Satie. Counsellor? Can you hear me? On screen. It's me. Governor, we are merely exploring all the possibilities. Lieutenant Uhnari's logs reported that Commander Morag had beenharassing the station. You learn a lot about people from their luggage. Two hundredand twenty five Yoshimitsu computers, five monitor beacon satellites,sevenhundred cellular commlinks, fifty spinning wheels. Has the cause of her destruction been ascertained? Let's reassemble in six hours. Stay sharp. No surprises. Iwould rather outthink them than outfight them. Questions? Doctor. Wes. We all have other friends aboard this ship, too. If we stay here much longer we may lose the ability to distinguishbetween thought and reality. Now, regardless of the risk, wake him. Now. My ankle is broken. I will just slow you down when you need tomove quickly. Now, you are the leader. And that's an order. Revive him. Isolate one and magnify. The Maquis. Open a channel. Begin a full sensor analysis, Mister Data, and log the findingswith the Federation Astrophysical Survey. It sounds like an intriguing experiment. I'll be interested tosee the results. Permission granted. Trespassing? Can we beam down an away team through one of those holes? Make it so. Mrs. Apgar, you understand the purpose of this hearing? He has no intention of stopping. He feels perfectly justifiedin using her until she dies. I didn't want you involved in this. Possibly it accumulated those frozen gasses over time as ittravelled through space. Don't worry, I won't move. Make no further attempts, Mister Worf. Any life form readingson the surface, Data? Here he comes. Do you read me? Permission granted. That's what this is all about. A lot has changed in the pastthree hundred years. People are no longer obsessed with theaccumulation of things. We've eliminated hunger, want, the need forpossessions. We have grown out of our infancy. Go back, Will. We go back to the Devron System. You knew what you had to do. I just made sure you listened toyourself. Goodbye, Cadet. I just couldn't make him understand. Professor, will you come with me? I'd like our Doctor toexamine you. As it was to our father. If you will release them, I will take theirplace. Predict current vector of Borg ship. Horse. Earth horse. I would like to offer a proposal. Standard station orbit, Mister Crusher. I have all the information I need for our report. Your prisonerhas been returned to you and you have a decision to make. Whether totry to force them back or welcome them home. In your own words, this isnot our affair. We cannot interfere in the natural course of yoursociety's development, and I'd say it's likely to develop significantlyin the nextseveral minutes. It's been an interesting visit. When you're ready formembership, the Federation will be pleased to reconsider yourapplication. Mister Riker, four to beam up. He's my weapons officer on the Stargazer. I'm getting quitecaught up in this. Mister Worf, hail the Romulan vessel. At least you impressed him, Number One. That's hopeful. Oh, no. The cell, Doctor. Whatever equipment you need will be broughtto you there. Good. It's not Gregory Quinn. It may look likehim and sound like him, but it isn't him. 1941, A. D. You mean the interphasic organisms. Don't do this, this, this you do with men. Evek, the last war caused massive destruction and cost millionsof lives. Don't send our two peoples back down that same path again. Not like this. Now the future lies in your hands right now. Give us onelast chance for peace. Granted. Will you escort him to the Bridge, Mister Worf. You said you had the realisation of impossible dreams to offerus. When this rescue is completed, I am prepared to listen carefully towhatever proposal you wish to make and subject to it being acceptable Q Well, one does not always have the luxury Well, we can't just leave. We have to stay here and protecther. And we have to keep on working on the retrovirus. If we coulddistract him, if we could lure him away from her. Good Lord, no. If I was, I wouldn't have this problem. Is your navigational system functioning? It means they plan on keeping us here for a while. Just not one who stands out. Doctor, will you at least allow me to Mister La Forge, can we see into the lab yet? It wouldn't do any harm. Transporter room three. Ready phasers, and lock! Stand by on warp nine. Heading seven,seven mark twenty. Engage. Lieutenant, what are their sensor readings? Is that an enemyvessel? This is not a joke, Corey. Hail them. Data I see you keep up with our duty roster. Using the gravitational pull of a star to slingshot back intime. Is that what happened here? Is the transport still under attack? Energise. Estimated distance to the nebula'sperimeter? Can we stop it? Computer, pause recording. Come. The transporter need not pattern your Captain into matter. We'll beam energy only, and we will become a combined energy pattern ofour life forms. A resignation from this command and from Starfleet hasbeen appropriately recorded. Getting some answers, because you can't get him to talk. Possibly. Or it could be part of a very carefully laid trap. That's our first stop. Verify containment and initiateauto-destruct. I remember hearing about it. The ship was destroyed by a warpcore breach as I recall. Mister Data, put the planet on the main viewer. Magnify. The Enterprise will hold its position, Mister Worf. Are there any other Romulans we should be looking to recoverfrom Galorndon Core? We seem to be in some kind of undergroundstructure, but I don't see any. Hey, no, you don't. No time to sleep. The legend will die, but the people will live. Come. Mrs. Troi and I are having a very interesting discussion aboutvarious societies' ways of giving thanks. The Betazoid use of thechime, for instance. Ten Forward, we're outside the door. Thank you, Mister Data. I have heard the sound before. Are you sure that that's it, Number One, or are you beinginfluenced by personal feelings? Are you responsible for the incident in Engineering? Q Data, have you been able to assess Commander Riker's condition? Ready for exactly what, Admiral? I'll see you at the inquiry. Good to meet you, Mister Locarno. I? At Tanagra. I remember the words but I don't understand. Number One. I don't know. Sometimes it almost seemed too real. I must say,you wear it well. I'm glad you could make it. Horrifying. Doctor Barron, your report describes how rationalthese people are. Millennia ago, they abandoned their belief in thesupernatural. Now you are asking me to sabotage that achievement, tosend them back into the Dark Ages of superstition and ignorance andfear? No! We will find some way to undo the damage we've caused. NumberOne, tell me about this group's leader. Very well, Doctor. We'll contact you again once we've finishedstudying the mission specs. Interesting relationship. What progress on the matter-antimatter scan? Memory, save current setting. Acknowledged, Lieutenant. Will you advise Commander Riker Iwill meet with him in one hour. Picard out. The Admiral is taking theposition that Lal's development should be overseen by the mostexperienced personnel. It's not working. Yes. He has the right to meet death awake. Send it directly to the aft section of the Raman through thesecondary air lock. That way it should put it just one bulkhead awayfrom the Bridge. Negative What did you do? Dead ahead. Impulse power. Can you do the modifications? There is a loneliness inherent in that whisper from thedarkness. Would you object to giving them enough for their own immediateneeds? It's a pity you didn't try using the holodeck instead ofsetting fire to your quarters. Fire. There's no way round it? You will not survive ours. Shall we die together? I was a different person in those days. Arrogant,undisciplined, with far too much ego and too little wisdom. I was morelike you. Q Lay in intercept course. Go to yellow alert. Now hear this. Print-out message, urgent, all stations on alldecks. Prepare for emergency saucer sever. You will command the saucersection, Lieutenant. Someone invented a hut. Someone invented a bow, who taughtothers, who taught their children, who built a stronger hut, built abetter bow, who taught their children. Now, Nuria, suppose one of yourcave dwelling ancestors could see you as you are today. What would shethink? Have you changed the colour of your eyes? On many worlds we've been to, they are isolated, treated aspariahs. Beverly, it is our obligation to think of escape. All right. I want to add the Tian Nan Men, the Sutherland andthe Hermes, whether the yard superintendent says they're ready or not. Mister Data, will you select a group of experienced Enterprise officersto augment the crews of those ships. Computer, key access four one two mark eight zero. Picard,Jean-Luc. Starfleet priority code Gamma. Decode. Begin message. It's over, Baran. Whatever you are, your actions are not welcome. Kill the lights in the medical lab, Mister La Forge. Let's seeif darkness will neutralise it. Hmm. You'd expect the bridge layout of this era to be clumsy,awkward, but look at this. It's a model of simplicity. Elegant,functional. They built this craft for generations. And it worked. Yes? And Farpoint Station? Any damage there? Yes. Will you come along? Negative, Mister Worf. If we are curious about it, it has aperfect right to be curious about us. I lied. Look, the Enterprise is scheduled to spend a weekundergoing maintenance overhaul at Starbase twelve. While there, Ipromise that I will make full use of available recreation activity. Engage. I asked you, what is this place? An opportunity to learn from one another. Civil. Q It's not just my opinion. He's been decorated by StarfleetCommand five times. He's been offered his own ship more than once. Ithink if you just gave him a chance, you'd find him an outstandingofficer. As I understand it, Karnas, you were the one who demanded theweapons to avenge your father's death. No, Jared. As I've tried to tell you, you saved your own livesa long time ago. What about the dust? Hey, why don't you spend more time with that young fellowDannick? I know that, Data. Look, I realise you've been studying thehuman equation with great alacrity, but perhaps you've been working atit too much. Don't try so hard to be human. Just be yourself. Allright? Report to Sickbay, Ensign Rager. Commander Riker to the Bridge. Options? Is that the only reason? What's your other option? P2 You're so wrong. This has nothing to do with ship's business, Number One. Suffice it to say, it is strictly a matter of image. Harm has already come to them. Adjust speed to intercept. I understand one of these devices successfully repaired afaulty power grid. Of any kind. Oh, yes. Oh, yes, it is. Well, I think this charade has gone far enough. Don'tyou? If you require respect from us, I am sure that you will see it. Mister Worf, initiate a level two security alert on all decksuntil further notice. Mister Worf, I do appreciate your caution. I share it. Bringhis vessel into the shuttlebay. Place it under guard. Well, I suppose a few moments longer. I'm afraid I can't helpyou, Mister Leech. The game is over. Dead stop. We'll hold this position and wait for them. All right. Computer, continuous scan, Captain Jean-Luc Picard,vital signs. Audible readout. Begin now. For what reason? I don't know who or what Darmok and Jalad are, but I certainlydidn't come here to start a war. That's perfectly understandable. Picard to Transporter Room Two lock on to the young woman inAmbassador Alkar's quarters. We may have to transport her out of there. He's unconscious. Why? But why would they attack us in the first place? Status, Doctor? What are these? The Federation is setting up a weather control matrix onHekaras Two. It's only a temporary solution, but it should suffice fornow. Doctor Stubbs, we cannot exterminate something that may or maynot be intelligent. Including questionnaires, Mister Worf. Oh, I wonder if you can possibly help me with something. I havebeen able to translate most of the writing on these two pieces For themost part, they're warnings of death and destruction to anyone whoopposes the resonator, but I am not able to determine what appears onthe anterior side. For example, this symbol represents the Vulcan godof war and this is the god of death, but if you look really carefully,you can see a third symbol missing. Now that obviously should belong tothe final piece. Now what's odd about this is that the gods of deathand war would typically always stand alone on an artefact. They wouldnever be combined with a third glyph. Does it work? Oh, it's very important I do, Wesley, because I mustimmediately lock a tractor beam onto the Tsiolkovsky, then tow it outof, We almost always encounter shock and fear on this sort ofmission. We hope that you will help us facilitate our introduction. Ensign, warp eight. Overtake him. I did last time. I rigged the table so that he would win in arematch. Q I sincerely hope that this is the last time that I find myselfhere. Q samples by tracing biochemical signatures, we'll be able todetermine who has been in this bay recently. Yes, I am. The last time I had to train like this was for theAcademy marathon, but I'm managing. What can I do for you? Would theyhave kept it thatsimple? Try it. Picard out. I'm sorry. With its Lang-cycle fusion engines still intact. You control the shields. O'BRIEN Is this the forty six? Yes. That's why it gets larger in the past. It grows as ittravels backwards in time. The entire orchestra? What are you doing in such a filthy uniform? Hello, Ian. Oh well, time to leave. Warn them we'll return fire. Counsellor, as this is a female dominated society, you mightwish to make the initial contact. Initiate emergency bulkheads in turboshaft four. Poison? Yes. Relationships with co-workers can be fraught withconsequences. And these blood feuds could last for decades? Set course for Federation territory, warp two. Engage. MisterData, I want you to take charge of this investigation. Study computerlogs, sensor information everything. I refuse to believe that this wasa simple malfunction. Sort them out, Commander. We're on our way. I am on board the Enterprise. Explanation. Data, disengage the tachyon pulse. Hello. Smells good. Thank you. Thisis a Terellian cargo freighter, isn't it? Is this your ship? Are youone of the crew? Increase to warp nine. The subspace signal the probe detected? The ionisationdisturbances? It's more serious than that. I think the mortality fail-safemay have been circumvented. He could've killed me. Yes. Doctor Crusher, this is the Captain. Meet me inTransporter room three. Mister La Forge, you have command of theBridge. A carrier wave? Is that how he's manipulating Data? Mister Worf, start a long range scan of the region. See ifthere are any Cardassian ships nearby. Mister La Forge, do you know enough about Borg programming toalter the pathways to their root command structure? If you wish to protect that investment, I suggest that youapproach her differently. Q All hands abandon ship. Repeat, all hands abandon Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise hasentered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We're the firstStarfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region. Mister Crusher, move the Enterprise out of range of theattacking vessel. Transporter room, get them up, now. Transporter Room]CRUSHER Where is Data now? Transporter room, energise. Permission granted. Hardly. Your service record shows you're just the Chief MedicalOfficer I want. Picard to Salia's quarters. No. They were sealed off more than a century ago. Q Acknowledged. You said that the transporter could be modified to filter outthe changes in Doctor Pulaski? You're wonderful. And am I that transparent? Counselor Troi understands him better. Is it as good as your report suggests, Number One? Astounding. The Federation established this corridor to ensure safe accessthrough this sector. We have nothing to gain from mining it. On screen. I see us one day becoming that, Q. Is it that what concernsyou? Doctor, all I've got is Which requires I now ask you a very serious question. Since thetwo of you are closely related to each other. Data. Nevertheless, we will all be serving together. Commander Rikerand I have expectations of you. RO Chart it. I want to see if there's a pattern. Tetryons? Like the emissions in the cargo bay. I am only here to secure the release of the Federationhostages. Mister Data. Good work, Chief. Perhaps Sickbay would be a better idea. It is not my intention to interfere. Only to help you andRishon. Raise shields. Will you and your husband be staying with the ship, Counsellor? Mister Data? No, not any longer. Doctor, if what you're saying is true, then Rocha attackedLieutenant Uhnari to find a new body. Oh, yes. She seems a very sturdy craft. You did know La Forge longer than any of us. Not entitled to ramble on about something everyone knows. Carryon. Ship's log, Commander William Riker reporting. Continuing our appraisal of Ligonian technology. The Captain has madeit clear he wants Lieutenant Yar beamed immediately to safety if herlifeshould become endangered, and I fervently hope the rules of thatcontest make it possible. What is it, Number One? What are youseeing? Well, putting that on one side for the moment, let's assumethat by some unexplained phenomenon, you witnessed an event thatoccurred to Lieutenant Kwan. Those faces that you saw. Did yourecognise any of them? The test is if a crew will follow where Commander Riker leads. His joviality is the means by which he creates that loyalty. And I willmatch his command style with your statistics any time. Transporter room, come in. Enterprise, one to beam up. Mister Data, we have to stop the Enterprise. That means youhave to get control of the train. Ready, Mister Data? You would see them die rather than share the medicine? I've regained attitude control for the ship, but main power isstill offline. It looks as though the entire power transfer grid hasbeen destroyed. Keep me advised. You have the Bridge untilCommander Riker returns. Mister Data, can you find me some way to communicate with thesethings? Earth, United States, San Francisco, California. Then we're agreed. Then this moon is a penal colony. On viewer. The Stone of Gol! Nevertheless. Exactly. Of course, that duty will fall to Commander Data. Would it surprise you to learn that he found them equallyvaluable? He has this unique ability of instantaneously interpreting andextrapolating any verbal communication that he hears. You will find himvery useful in Sector Vega-Omicron. Was there any evidence of life? But you have just said there are only two challengers arriving. What is the point? Thee and me? I don't understand. K'mpec believed that it was either Duras or Gowron. I am Locutus of Borg. Resistance is futile. Your life as it has been is over. From this time forward, you willservice us. But the two of you are very well acquainted. Counsellor, I shall need you. You have the Bridge, Number One. No. Send a security team. Nuria, your people live in huts. Was it always so? I'm taking this up with you, Will! The Judge Advocate thoughtyou were participating in a conspiracy to cover up the truth. Now, whatthe hell is going on here, Will? Why did that mutiny happen? Why isPressman so determined to find your ship twelve years later? Q the liar. Q the misanthrope. Q Oh, it's you. Recommendation? Good luck, Will. That will be all. A life form. By all means, Admiral. Riker. You! You did that! You hunt us. You kill us. We cannot allow that. Your service to this ship has been exemplary. I don't want tolose you. That it did, Number One. Rest assured. We're going to intercept that ship. No, sir. No one was on board. As you wish, Mister Tholl. We must get inside this panel. I'm going to start sending down other away teams. Set up acommand post and begin mapping out a search plan. Not on board my ship. I will not allow it. And what's at stake? Number One, a word. We have some information you should beaware of. No, not under these circumstances. Admiral, it's a little difficult to prepare for a mission Iknow nothing about. Thank you, Ensign, that's enough. Captain Dirgo, you're an ablepilot. I welcome your input. Do you feel that there is an alternativewe're overlooking? But there are customs and rituals of which I have no experienceat all. Very well. Isolate the probe and place it in tow. We'll take itto Science Station four oh two in the Kohlan system. I agreed. All right then. Mister Worf, initiate your searchpattern. Let's head in. I have reason to believe that my presence on this mission isimperative. I don't think that has anything to do with anything. Well,perhaps it was because. This is foolish. What a language. Mister Data, send out a series of class-four probes to surveythe far side of the sphere. Perhaps we'll have more luck with them. Put this on the main viewer. On what basis, Admiral, am I to decide? Your good word? Are youwilling to help us overpower the Romulan B-type warbirds we mayencounter? Are you prepared to help us detect them through theircloaking shields? You see my problem, Admiral. You ask us for faith incircumstances which are hardly possible to believe, compounded by liesand your refusal to tell us all you know. Well, let's hope that you're mistaken, Ensign. But can youpoint us at the right individual, as Mister Data suggested? RO That would leave you defenceless. So, did you get my message? Very well. Proceed. Now, you will continue with your analysis and determine thedanger, not only to our ship, but the Klingon vessel also. No, I don't. Such as the politeness of saying please before abductingsomeone? Your what? All right, all right. Have Commander LaForge transport a stasisunit from the astrophysics lab. You should be able to convert it tostore tissue samples. This entire mystery started when our sensors detected thatplanet. First it was class-M, now it isn't. Sense anything, Commander? Data, please, feel free to volunteer any important information. Reason enough for anyone to go to war. We have only Doctor Kingsley's assurance that these childrenare not infected, whereas we have seen the results of this diseasefirst hand. In a case like this, I think we should err on the side ofcaution. PULASKI Cadet. On screen. Obviously, they did not expect and never wanted this challenge. You're getting close to something, Lieutenant. Something they care agreat deal about protecting. The two Ornarans are really quite ill and insisting that theyneed felicium. Then what is feeding the damn thing? Why is that? Exactly. If there anything we can do to help? You and your staff arewelcome aboard for a change of scene, rest. I'm not going to hurt you. Good, because our survival depends upon it. I am ordering younever to reveal what has happened here today. Not to Starfleet, not tomyself. You will conceal your knowledge of the Paxans for as long asyou exist. Do you fully understood, Data? Ensign, lay in a course away from the Romulan vessel. Engage atwarp one if you detect any sign it's going to explode. Is penetration possible? Hail the colony. Audio on. Unless. So, where are you off to now? Troi tells me you met Jean-Luc. How's mynamesake holding up to all this? An entire civilisation that's terminally ill. Is it reversible? Status? Inform him we're on our way. Thank you forbreakfast. Ensign, warp nine point three. How much time? Where is he? I will discuss the matter with Counsellor Troi. A telepathic weapon. Ah, Wesley. Come on the Bridge. Move! Acknowledged. Fine. Then maybe you'll sit down and have a rest like you'resupposed to. No, no, no. No, we have to get to the Neutral Zone. No, it isn't. We can confer here on the Bridge, if no one has any objections. Of course. Go to manoeuvring jets. Position us between that vessel and theplanet. Force fields full on. Mister Data, will you take your position? Mister Crusher? Layin a course for the starbase on Otar Two. The time distortion we felt. It's your signal. Why did you choose to study the concepts of authority andleadership? 4 We have to assume they've also taken the Bridge. JR Doctor Warren is here. We're doing all we can. Then get unstuck and continue with the briefing. How serious? They are not vermin. They are citizens of the Federation. Iwill not permit this outrage! Mister Crusher, set a course for the Beta Agni Two system, warpsix. It comes down to this. We're faced with an enemy who aredetermined to destroy us, and we have no hope of negotiating a peace. Unless that changes, we are justified in doing anything we can tosurvive. What's going on? Picard here. What's causing it? Ah. Batai. And you say I've been ill? It's imperative. Good afternoon. I'm sorry if I startled you. I'm Jean-LucPicard, Captain of the Enterprise. I have brought you something youwill need if you're going to stay on Rana Four. It's a matterreplicator. It has limited capabilities, but Follow your orders? The orders of a small man trying to fill arole too big for him. I say it's time for a change. Who's with me? I can't accept that explanation. Oh, well, I'm just tying up some vines. Stand by, Commander. Oh yes I would, and should. Data, don't babble. It's the act of a Starfleet officer obeying his Captain, Doctor. No. I don't care what kind of ship we go in. We have to get to theDevron System. No. No, you won't. You're not a killer. Begin countdown. Mark. Do you believe there is a threat to the Federation in thisstruggle? So, you're Ronin. It's a pleasure to meet you. Where are youfrom? Let's see if they'll answer our hail now, Mister Worf. As am I. Worf, you know what to do. Take us er Any idea what it is or where it comes from? Yes, Lieutenant. I assume you know what it's about. We've already checked those possibilities. The initial findingswould seen to indicate that there was a radiation surge from theRomulan engine core which disrupted the signal. They neverrematerialised. On screen. On screen. Who are you? Geordi, step closer. It looks to me like aspectrograph indicating metal fatigue. Number One, so long as they're on board this ship, I'm ahostage no matter where I am. We all are. I must find out who we'redealing with. If La Forge and Ro can attempt a rescue in short order,then let them proceed. If they can't, I will provide you with anotheropportunity. Watch for it. Come. What about my quarters? More intimate. If he has the ability to beam aboard, he may be able to beamsomeone away. I feel I must postpone action until welearn more. What's it's source? Or what? Or this? Her death? Or worse? You promised theprisoners will not be harmed. We plead nothing so long as you breakyour own rules. Q One way trip. When can you start? Well, it won't take them long to realise that Rahm Izad is thewrong planet. Captain, you're welcome to join us. Computer, freeze programme. You were five seconds slower thattime. What is it, Number One? Return me to my ship! Q Yes, I do. I want those codes that Manheim gave Mister Data rechecked andthen checked again. No one is beaming down to Vandor unless we can bereasonably sure they can get through. You had no right to involve me without my permission. The Constitution classEnterprise, Captain James T. Kirkcommanding. All right, Data. Propose it to the nanites. I haven't heard anything about this. We have fought a pitched battle with it, and lost. Many of mycrew have been injured including a woman who's mind is slowly beingdestroyed by telepathic manipulation. We'll stay and investigate. None of the scans show any anomalies. No signs of an intruder. Wesley's experiment clearly did not have the scope to affect an entirestarship. We can take you directly through the structure. Have the two of you met before? Magnify. I think the chances of that is remote. And if you will bestill, Mister Elbrun, you may learn. There are other Bajorans in Starfleet. Assign one of them. Granted. Sickbay, this is Picard. Have an emergency medical team meet meoutside Ten Forward. Will your nervous system be able to handle that much sensoryinput? Maybe he was already thinking ahead to his next confrontationwith Commander Riker. Computer, play Riker programme four, time indextwenty four one. Security, this is the Captain. Security? Engineering, this is the Bridge. Oh, yes. Theorise, Mister Data. What would be the purpose of such anencasement? I shall certainly avail myself of your help. Try hard. And what are you here to do? Ask for a refund? What's our heading? Admiral, they've endured generations of sympathy and promises. How can I believe this Orta will be satisfied with more of the same? Not now, Data. Actually, I really like running around the ship in my barefeet. I've noticed qualities in you that could be harnessed, moulded. RO I believe that it would be premature to take that action,Mister Worf. There's no real evidence linking these comas with theUllians. If we had transferred all that warp power to the shields, itwould have torn the ship apart. Jean-Luc. Admiral Satie? Commander Riker conducts masterclasses in poker. They're no longer involved. This is between you and me. Mister Worf, will you convey my gratitude to the Captain andadvise him that Mister Data and I will be transporting over shortly. I see. A Captain's rank means nothing to you. The two of you are acquainted? Interesting? You could say that, since he tried to have mekilled, and conspired to strip Worf of his good name. That's it. That would be the prudent move. I never thought I'd hear myselfsaying something like that. Both your claims have been properly made and recorded. We areready for the final phase of the ja'chuq. There will be a recess whileI review your petitions. I'm sure you're as concerned as I am about theexplosion aboard K'mpec's vessel. I assume that you are both continuingyour investigations? I'm not here to command. Who is responsible? Counsellor? Specify. What kind of disturbance? You're circling the room like a buzzard. Thank you. Which had a terrestrial launch date ofJuly 23rd, 2037. It was the third manned attempt to travel beyond theconfines of the Earth's solar system. Computer, locate and display the text ofthe novel entitled Hotel Royale by Todd Matthews. All right, Mister La Forge, get us out of here. On screen, Mister Worf. Because her people had contact with theBorg, I have requested Guinan to participate in this conference. Youare aware of what occurred just now in main Engineering. We must take care that while he is with us,Commander Kurn is accorded all the rights and responsibilities due thefirst officer of this ship. If he should feel patronised in any way Maybe we should contact her. Use Science Station two, Doctor. Are you all right? Would you prefer not to return to the surface? Inspector, Inspector, this is hearsay. She wasn't a witness tothis incident. Good. I know what your word means. What would you have me do, Data? How would you handle this ifour positions were reversed? Mister Worf, will you begin preparations to remove theinhabitants from Dorvan Five. I also have the responsibility of being the bearer of unhappynews. I would rather not escalate this situation any further. You didn't mention you were that certain. There is a difficulty here, one that has forced us toaccelerate this entire process. One of our people is missing. My FirstOfficer, Commander William Riker. He was down on the planet surface,coordinating with the observation team the final details of contact. Hedisappeared. My people have made enquiries but they've not been able tolocate him. If there is anything you can help Of course. Wesley? If we go down, I'd like you to join the awayteam to evaluate this world as a place for young people to relax. Mister Data, find out everything you canabout the destruction of the Khitomer outpost. Cross reference withRomulan tactics and strategic information on the region, and requestaccess to the Klingon central information net. Computer, presentationoverview of Klingon custom and law pertaining to familialaccountability. Let's just choose one. It's no bother, Wesley. Please, sit down. Engineering, report. Is there any chance of your freeingPalmer and transporting up unseen? Well, then. There's still that anomalous class-M planet we weregoing to investigate. Ensign, replot a course to take us back to Pay off your wager. Q Mister Riker? Nothing would be served by killing the Arbiter before hisdecision. That's what we have to find out. Baran is the key. I think thathe knows more about what we're really looking for than anyone else onthis ship. I want you to get close to him. Try and get his confidence. Can't you just turn on the kid's computer in schoolroomeight? We just want to play a few games. Yes, that's true, Number One. But if the transmitters and thesensors were removed and life-support installed, there would be justenough room for one person. Contact Mister Worf. Make sure he knows what's going on. I was with him before coming here. He expressed his pride inyou. His love. Captain, do you know what year this is? I don't know! I don't know! I want to see Data! That's true. I am Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of the Enterprise. We come inpeace. Mister Data? Thank you, Ensign. Well done. Initiate that procedure . Lieutenant, add that information to hailing messages. Has been lost Engage. Mister Data, what do we know about this Ardra? Now, Mister La Forge. No, thank you. Everything is under control. It'll be some time. Governor Vagh, thank you for coming. Thank you, Mister Data. Data. Could this distortion be caused by a cloaked ship? Good luck to both of you. Bractor. Don't thank me. Sobi and Langor, they decided to let you haveit. Picard here. You said that the message came directly from Ambassador Spock. I understand that he requested the Enterprise specifically. I believe our best chance of escaping this situation is for meto pilot the shuttle. It's my ship, Will. I've got to do this. Jono, your Captain, Endar, has he ever hurt you? Inflictedpain? Open a channel. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard I propose that we test this relationship by cooperating in ajoint exploration of the planet surface. Mister La Forge, I understand that before the Jenolen crashed,it had conducted an extensive survey of the Dyson sphere. Have we beenable to access any of those records? Does he understand the situation? Make it so. We will be in orbit around Peliar Zel within six hours. If youcould arrange for the representatives of Alpha and Beta to be there,then Ambassador Odan could beam directly down to the planet. I agree to your terms. Remarkable. Exit. No. Mister Worf, I gave you an order. We may never reach that point. A variation of what happened tothe Yamato might destroy us first. As to that, there's no option. No, of course not. I respect his belief, but I do not see howit can have any bearing on this mission. But even so, I can't helpwondering if a dark chapter in my family's history is about to berepeated. If those people take up arms against us, then I cannotforesee the consequences. Mister Worf, will you come in here for amoment? Then we have no way to prove Mogh's innocence, and Worf willdie as the son of a traitor. The coils stay here. Right. Now this is something that I first tasted on ThelkaFour. I was hoping we'd learn more about it. But since we can't, takeus out of here, Number One. Then the Sheliak must agree to extend our deadline. They planto settle Tau Cygna Five two days from now. Yes, of course. I entirely agree. Is it possible that suchconsuming dedication could interfere with her judgement? Well I'm really very sorry you didn't enjoy your time at theAcademy, Ensign. As far as I'm concerned, you should have been expelledfor what you did. Quite frankly, I don't know how you made it on boardthis ship. You're dismissed. Yes, what is it, Counsellor? I see. Ambassador, You must return to theEnterprise immediately. Counsellor Troi is dying. It seems Commander Data has it them as well. Perhaps you need an undercover operative. A Romulan device. That's reassuring. Excellent. An ale for me, and for my officers. In fact, alesfor everyone. 2 Engage. I don't. And I don't want to. We should run a complete diagnostic of all commandsystems. Hold on, it won't be long. Very good. Commander Riker and an away team will join youshortly. Picard out. What about males? What you have done will have seriousramifications. I am truly dismayed that you toldno one of what you were doing. Of course. Anything you can tell me will be helpful. We're, er,um, married? We've never needed a crew before. Stand by a moment on that. Wesley. Wes. Are you aware thatyou're acting strangely, that a kind of infection was brought over fromthe Tsiolkovsky which acts like intoxication? Fatalities? But of course, as you and Lieutenant Riker have lived verydifferent lives for the past eight years, you are now very differentpeople. I suppose it's a little like meeting someone's twin. But nomatter how strange it may seem to us, we now have two Will Rikers onboard. And as Lieutenant Riker will be with us for several days, Ithink we should do everything we can to make him comfortable andwelcome. Advise all personnel on deck thirty eight to stay out of thecargo bays. Did you ever feel that these patterns were attempting tocommunicate? But you'll agree it is enough to present to your leader. The Captain is fine, thank you. Mister Data has beenbriefing me on the away team's comportment, Number One. It happened again. There was a crime committed on board this ship, but it was notJono's. It was mine. When we found Jono, it seemed so clear what had tobe done. We knew that if only we could persuade him to make thedecision to stay, then you would most likely let him. So with the bestof intentions, we tried to convince him, and in so doing, we thoroughlyfailed to listen to his feelings, to his needs. That was the crime, andit has taken a huge toll on a strong and very noble young man. And itmust be rectified. He will return home. To the only home he's everknown. And to the father that he loves. To you, Endar. Stand by. Engage. Fascinating! The entire crew going out of control, Hailing frequencies. What do you want? Is that feasible? Stay calm, Jake. We'll get you back. Oh, please, Mister will do fine. Well, the overallconfiguration is certainly Fifth Dynasty. The surface ornamentation. Starfleet does not condone the Maquis' actions in theDemilitarised Zone any more than your government would condone theparamilitary actions of Cardassian civilians. Number One, I want a staff meeting on the observation deck. Tasha, go to transporter room three. I wantyou there when the away team returns. Hungry, thirsty, exhausted. I suppose that proves this is not adream, doesn't it? Well, Number One, I can see why you want to keep the awaymissions to yourself. That's where the excitement is. So, what's beenhappening here? Same old routine, I suppose? <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Jono, why did you do it? Come. Ensign Ro has educated me. Apparently so. How long were we unconscious? If he was only doing his job, then I'm sure you won't mind ifwe spoke with him. I would rather die as the man I was than live the life I justsaw. According to Starfleet regulations, that would be my onlycourse of action. But their ships are faster than yours. I'm not doingyou a favour. Bridge. Commander, do you have anysuggestions on how we could encourage the parasites to leave the shiponce we reach the Pelloris Field? Evasive manoeuvre sequence delta. RO Ensign, manoeuvre us into tractor beamrange. A little premature, aren't we? And more. Lieutenant, I order you to relax. Why don't we sit down? I must be out of my mind. Ensign, lay in a course for Kaelon Two. Warp factor five. You can tell Baran that I'm working as fast as I can. What? Commander Riker, acknowledge! Fire torpedoes. Ambassador Loquel, Ambassador Byleth. I'm Captain Picard. Welcome on board the Enterprise. Bring him home, Number One. Energise. Humans can't survive in that environment. Exposure to hyperonicradiation is fatal. Small animals, no, but horses. Computer, programme the holodeckfor a woodland setting, with a bridle path and an appropriate mount. I happen to be a reasonably qualified pilot, Number One. Besides, these tests hardly require the Captain's personal attention. Either leave my Bridge or I will remove you by force. You wanted to see me? In an age when their technology should be able to clothe andfeed all of them, that they should have to live like this. RO How bad is it? Mister La Forge, when I left this ship, it was in one piece. Iwould appreciate your returning it in the same condition. Do youconcur, Number One? And that the sun revolved around it. Let me hear it. Worf. Klingon species. A warrior race. Youtoo will be assimilated. We have been wrestling with that problem too, unfortunatelywithout any success. But we have turned our findings over toStarfleet's most experienced theoretical scientists. If music is what he wants, why should I stand in his way? Anyway, who knows how much time he'll have to follow any dream. Yes. Chief O'Brien, lock onto that transponder signal. Space-time to normal. Prepare to take us out of here, Number One. Thank you, Mister O'Brien. Another moment and We need more information. What the hell are they are using? There may be a structural flaw that would allow us to escape. Yes, I can see that. I'm sure the Federation will want to helpin any way that it can. With whatever force necessary, terminate that beam. Fire whenready. Take cover! What does he need to begin making use of that? By my programme as well, Data. How long to the Phelan system, Mister Data? Walker. How is she? The Hera? You all right? Now you have to get help. Guinan needs medical attention. It's a mystery. Who was this man? Who killed him? Where's themoney he was talking about? It's a mystery. Now, we have to go searchfor clues. Mister Worf, can we knock out their shields without seriouslydamaging their ship? We need more speed than that, Commander. Deanna, are you all right? Why? Negative. I'll handle this myself. He was an expert incybernetics? I want to be returned to my ship immediately. Bridge, this is the Captain. Are there any others like you here? Well, I didn't want to risk a misunderstanding. Someone mighthave mistaken this for an actual raid. You sound surprised. Computer, display interior security grid. It will be pleasant to have her as a guest of the Enterpriseagain. Energise. We're going to get back home. Take him to Engineering. Perhaps a brief pause would be helpful. Can you calibrate their destination? Resuming previous course. Depends. How fast would a ship travel through one of these conduits? Yes. You read me well enough to sense how I feel about you andwhat you do on this ship. But I just wanted to say the words. Thankyou. Well done. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. And Wyatt Miller. Did the shuttle's flight logs show where Galen had been beforecoming to the Enterprise? Change course to make a close sensor pass. We can then increasewarp speed and reach Parliament on schedule. Captain, it would that we have found thequantum signature you are looking for. My friendship with Marta is not something I regret. Q At home. Sunday dinner. We would all sing afterward. And Data, will you leave your hesitation and self-doubt here inyour quarters. I appreciate your help. Release the exterior hull plate. We mayhave to jettison the core. Ensign, take us out of here, maximum warp. No, Ian, I don't think I've played with puppies. Sovereign, we can at least acknowledge that Chorgan appearswilling to discuss your offer. Energise. Not necessarily. Nelson toured the Victory beforeTrafalgar. The advantage is, thatit will appear from the Kreechta's perspective as thoughyou were destroyed in theexplosion. While you're at it, run a localised subspace scan to look foranything unusual. Of course. Wesley. You remember I was always proud of you. We've no fear of what the true facts about us will reveal. Q Come. Q We will tell you what we know about the planet, and in trade,you will give us your information. Then I won't keep you. Then why did it attack you more quickly than Doctor Kingsley? Of course. Can we get a general status report? Mister Data? Engineering, status report. Please, organise it into brief answers to my questions. We havevery little time. Do they accept our presence at this planet? Whatever it is, why do you demonstrate it through thisconfrontation? Why not a simple, direct explanation, a statement ofwhat you seek? Why these games? Q This transmitter module has been totally destroyed. How couldthat happen? It looks as though it's been hit by a phaser blast. Transport to the Romulan ship as soon as we're within range. To Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Commanding Officer USSEnterprise, stardate 46358.1. You are hereby requested and required torelinquish command of your vessel to Captain Edward Jellico, CommandingOfficer Cairo as of this date. Signed, Vice-Admiral AlynnaNechayev, Starfleet Command. Computer, transfer all command codes toCaptain Edward Jellico. Voice authorisation, Picard delta five. Cortan? Cortan Zweller? Yes, Lieutenant. Do it gently. But do it. Gentlemen, please, let's try and resolve this matter. CaptainKushell, what crime has Okona allegedly committed against you? Commander, if that ship has travelled into the future, we couldbe dealing with variables that will alter the flow of our history. Then it wasn't a dream. It's called the Blue Parrot Cafe, and you're buying. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Hail them. Her belly may be full, but her spirit will be empty. No time to explain, Number One. Continue the evacuation of theRomulan ship. You'll find LaForge in the Romulan engine room. Beam himdirectly to Sickbay. Commander Data, do you hear me? Irepeat. Data, do you hear Is La Forge still down there? This is not an away team, Commander. I consider this aceremonial function. For me not to go could be construed as lack ofinterest. My apologies. I was unaware that you had not been instructed inthe use of the food dispensers. Plot a course. Maximum warp. How did he do it, Data? What made you decide to come here? Proceed. That's very unusual. Exit! What do you want, Q? You state your business. Get on with it. Q That pleases me. He's headed for Engineering. What was that? Has the ambassador been delayed? Oh, on the contrary, Professor, you were quite helpful. Transporter room three, this is the Captain. We have arrived. Picard here. Open a channel. That's the only chance we have of finding Worf. You will wait for me in the corridor. Hisinsubordination is growing by leaps and bounds. I could use discipline,but I'd rather try and help him. Shields up. La Forge, contact Commander Riker. Worf, check alldecks. None at all, Mister Mandl. Until this is sorted out, I'veprovided temporary quarters for you and your staff. Perhaps you'd liketo make use of them. Come. Counsellor, how's the boy? I'm sorry? What for? Such as my reporting this incident to your superiors who mayquestion your competency asDaiMon? I will think about it. Screen off. How is old Boothby? I hope he didn't tell you a lot of storiesabout me. An excellent reason to escape. Do you think you've gained hisconfidence? It must have been. I'm truly sorry, Liator, but I must have justice for my peopletoo. Transporter room, energise. Could Deanna have picked up some kind of disease from her? It seems he built that bridge. I may be forced to tear it down. I thought of asking for a volunteer. Wes, this is Captain Picard. Do you see me? Agreed. We don't have enough information about this phenomenonto act in a responsible way. I think we'll hold off on ProfessorMoriarty's request for now, but continue with your investigation. Inthe meantime, I have to deal with ProfessorMoriarty. Thirty minutes, Number One. Data, take command. Masaka, I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Yes, ma'am. Last time I was in this sector, I was on the Stargazer, runningat warp speed ahead of a Cardassian warship. Go ahead. Yes, I believe that. You think that she lied? Stand by. I'm coming down. Please, Mister Worf, come in. I particularly want my guest tomeet you. Admiral Satie. This is my Head of Security, Lieutenant Worf. Doctor. So it was necessary to keep me captive? And Data, all communication with this life form must cease. Yes, Mister Data. I want to know about her biological parents, about their death. I find it odd that any Q could die in an accident. Can we get a visual? As you were, Lieutenant. How long have you been here? No, no, no. Since you last called me Captain, since we were alltogether on the Enterprise? A Captain does not reveal his personal feelings with his crew. So, what are you doing out here? Mister Data, what can you tell us? Exactly what kind of historian are you? Of course. Mister Data, you have the Bridge. Continue accelerating. Counsellor, at this point I'm open toguesses about what we've just met. I will order Lieutenant Yar to fight. And may your cloak bringyou all you deserve. I would argue that the Crystalline Entity has as much right tobe here as we do. Now, Commander Data has some theories on how we mightcommunicate. Please confer with him. Did you who attacked the Enterprise? Reduce engine power. Tractor beam off. We question whether this court is abiding by its own trialinstructions. Have I have permission to have Commander Data repeat therecord? Q And as I watched Worf, it was like lookingat a man that I had never known. Magnify. Mister Data? I'm feeling very much better. in fact, I don't intend to go onusing this any longer. It's perfectly normal. Most serious riders do have their ownsaddles. It's going to take a little time to explain, Number One. Captain's log, stardate 46945.3. We successfullyevacuated the crew of the Romulan ship, and we're on course to theNeutral Zone to bring them home. Have you made a test injection yet? We're getting indicationsthat this condition is spreading. Whenever I get insomnia, I try to perfect the recipe. Is there something more, Number One? Sit down! Please. Please. Now, we're here to talk. Well, I would recommend that before we prepare for combat, wetry to access the ship's logs, find out who we are, what our purposehere might be. Of course. Ardra, will you would do the honours and stop thetremors? Perhaps it would be prudent to find out if he'd acquired anyenemies there. Picard to Riker. Q, I ask you to put and end to this before someone gets hurt. Q Very little. It was thought to be uninhabited until theseemissions were detected. Starfleet believes that the Cardassians mayhave a secret research lab located somewhere below the planet surface. Our orders are to penetrate this Celtris Three installation anddetermine if the Cardassians are actually building a metagenic weapon. Engine status. I have twelve hours. Commander Riker wrote those reports. He agrees with you. One moment, Mister Data. Admiral, this is Picard. May I knowthe reason for this communication? I'm going to pilot the shuttle. In my Ready room. My dear Doctor, in our current position, when that starexplodes, you'll get to watch your experiment from the inside out. Have you seen anything like that before? Tasha died, a year before you came on the Enterprise. You nevermet her. I know. Robin Hood. Here we are again. How long do we have? Picard out. I want to use the shuttlecraft for low levelreconnaissance. Have the designated pilots assemble at main shuttlebay. This is my First Officer, Commander Riker. Assistant Chief Engineer Shimoda, report to Medical. She's never seen a bow. It doesn't exist in her world. To you,it's a simple tool. To her, it's magic. Agreed. Mister La Forge, are you ready to separate our guestfrom the hull? And yet he chose this way of life. He has made the samecommitment to Starfleet that we all have. It's easy to transfer aproblem to someone else. Too easy. Shut off that damned noise. Go to Yellow Alert. Computer, freeze programme. I think I can muddle my way through. I understand you've been discussing alternative adversarialengagement strategy with Mister Mot. Nevertheless, it seems clear that your husband was motivated toearn the kind of rewards that pleased you, Mrs. Apgar. Mister Worf, ascertain their offensive potential. Why don't we use Riker? He's a Starfleet Commander. He couldtalk us past the outpost security without raising their suspicions. Then when their shields go down, we can beam the artefacts up herewithout ever leaving the ship. Counsellor. I can't expose the Enterprise until I know where this diseasecame from and how it is transmitted. On the contrary, we've had a difficult time with transporterssince we arrived here. That's why we had to send down the shuttle. Youshould all have been aware of that fact. Is it a wormhole? Data, find a way to defeat that shield. Let me explain. You're going to have to prove that you are who you say you are. What could the ringing symbolise? A bell? Sound? Anold-fashioned way of communicating? Belay that order. Friendship must dare to risk, Counsellor, or it's notfriendship. Well, that's a Benzite trait. It's been suggested that anofficer from the Enterprise might participate in the programme. Will rot. Put that down, please. What you neglected to mention was that following the loop yourteam attempted a manoeuvre that was the direct cause of the crash. Youtold the truth up to a point. But a lie of omission is still a lie. Doyou remember the day you first came aboard this ship? Your motherbrought you on the Bridge. We can't do that. If we send that ship back with new technologywe will be altering the past. I'm all right. Beverly, go after him. Go to the cemetery. Don't listen to him, Gloria. He's lying. Maques, is it possible that your telepathic communications withMrs Troi harmed her in some way? Deck ten, forward station one. That will be all. Now, Get to your station and concentrate on your assignment. It's interesting that you should mention the Horatio. It's oneof the subjects I wanted to discuss. I relieve you, sir. If anything, even worse than we'd heard. Mister La Forge, do we have any record of our current mission? Good idea. Nothing. Well, Data, I must say, this is a fine place you havehere. They certainly treat professors pretty well at Cambridge Proceed. Mister Crusher, take us out of orbit. Any way I can? Mister Data? This is a confession givenby me, Jean-Luc Picard commanding Stargazer. By whom? You have ten. Picard out. God? The moment those Vulcan ships appear in the Neutral Zone, theEnterprise will move to intercept. We come from several kilometres outside the city. It's a fact. Bear that in mind while you conduct your survey. Maybe Q did the right thing for the wrong reason. Itself, then. Itself or it's own power source. If we can determine what its needs are, we might find othersources to supply it. Report. I understand from Doctor Crusher that Worf will never regain the use of his legs. Riker, with the peace delegates and all, I think I do need arest. Take charge, Number One. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Ensign, increase to warp eight. Mister Data, how long before the waveovertakes us? Oh, but there is. You're a fraud, madame, and I intend to provethat you could not have affected the changes that took place on thisplanet. A line as the unending horizon. A curve as? A line as theunending horizon. A curve You don't even know what I want. If there is any way of finding out whatever is out there, Data. Number One, get your team back up here. No, my dear Louis, two men. Robert's and my father's. Lieutenant, take the conn position. Engineering, this is theBridge. But how can that be possible? They're different species fromdifferent planets. There should be no compatibility at all. No. You have an important job to do here. If we are to freeyour mother, then we have to be able to trace the movements of theterrorists. I want you to work with the team that are investigatingthis new technology of theirs. To seek and destroy a metagenic weapon. A legacy of your Progenitors, Radue. The source of your powerand of your problems. Yes, yes, I know what you're thinking. It's the IrumodicSyndrome. He's beginning to lose his mind, the old man. Well, it's notthat. And I'm not daydreaming either. Allow me, with the help of Mister La Forge, to explain. Computer, load Manua programme one, time index fourteen four one. Playprogramme. Let's put an end to their last cry for help. How long before impact? Commander, how long will it take us to search this system? The ship? The Ferengi ship that attacked me. Or is it about toattack me? Won't the moon disintegrate prior to impact? Go ahead, Mister Data. Very good. Helm, lay in a course for the Fleming. I didn't have to. They already knew. Proceed. And what will that be Go ahead. On my way. Picard out. Conduct an intensive scan of the area. I don't know, just do it. Oh, one other thing. Take a look at this. Turned up during anintelligence sweep. Make it so. Time, Mister Data? Open a channel to the Excalibur. Sarek and I share a particular bond. Our lives touched in anunusual way. I admit I feel the effects of his death. The tenor of thismission has changed, Mister Data, at least it has for me. We were sentto confront Spock about his disappearance. Now, I also have to tell himthat his father is dead. Captain Shumar. We'll be approaching the southern polar regionthat you requested in a few minutes. I need to give additionalinstructions. It is my prerogative to investigate anything that may berelevant to the Rite of Succession. Lieutenant Worf is my ChiefSecurity Officer. His presence is required. Then I won't die? Q All right, Q, that's enough. You've made your point. Q? I had hoped to find that out from you. Kallisko, change course. Take evasive action. Do whatever youcan to outrun it. So the anomaly is here too, at Earth. Q Perhaps it's like those incidents you describe in your reportas almost magical attempts to please us. Admiral, in addition to your rank, you are a particularlyvaluable commodity just now. Starfleet has a right to some answers. We'll have to check the craft for something to protect ourheads and eyes. And Captain, please recover your medical supplies, foodand water rations All decks, all stations. The only communication that was sent werethe numbers one four zero zero. What will you do now ? 2 That does not alter the fact that my orders are to The Enterprise is ready, Doctor. Then the Uthat actually exists? Possibly, Mister Worf. Number One? Is there anyone on Romulus he might know, or choose to contact? During the missing day? I don't know why we have to do this every year. I thought thatlast year the teachers had agreed that they wouldn't do this anymore. I will have the Captain contact then down on the planet andtell them to prepare for your return. Did you really think using their identities would gain oursympathy? But not low enough to beam them out. I'm not particularly impressed. All you've done is teach themto enjoy killing. It was a little sudden. Terrorist carrier? Are you certain? A most significant step. The transceivers. Lorin said that they would align themselvesto our psi-wave patterns. They let you escape with an arsenal of worthless secrets. Whatother explanation is there? Why would he do that? Mister Crusher, set course for the Hromi Cluster. Come. Mister Worf, have you been able to identify the source of theradiation? How's your patient? What about La Forge? On screen. Fine. But what about the things that Lore is proposing? Whatabout the lives that have already been lost? Surely you have emergency supplies? Are you coming, Mrs. Troi? On screen. Hold position. Let's see what it does. Ensign Gates, set a course and engage. In the meantime, we must consider restricting them to theirquarters, as a precautionary measure. Yes, I certainly did, and I expect it to stay turned off. Wouldyou come down from there? I see you've made yourself at home. We'll join you shortly. What race are you? Where are you from? Take us Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Yes, recently. While I was reading. Why do you ask? By doing what? When? How can Actually, I came to see you. What caused the rage? When you say it wants you, do you mean it'sstill you, only you, and not me. P2 For the experience. What did you found out about Uhnari? Fascinating, Data, absolutely fascinating. I'm sure Mrs. Troiwould love to hear the one about the anomalous chemical composition ofbrown dwarf stars. And how shall you answer them tonight, Chancellor? I've just come from Sickbay. Doctor Crusher feels that yourmother's condition is worsening. Her neural foundations are gettingweaker. Have you had any luck here? On screen. Quite sure. Just get on with it, Doctor. I've got work to do. Keep me advised. Guinan, how much more can you tell us aboutthese creatures? What about you, Rishon? Is that how you feel? On the contrary, Gamma Tauri Four is recognised by allcivilised members of If you hadn't grabbed my sword we'd be back in Sherwood by now. Because you feel unworthy. Why not? I saw you crying. Open a hailing frequency. Something funny? Doesn't it seem strange to you that there have been two Borgattacks and the Enterprise has been the nearest ship in both instances? If you've been planning this so long, youmust have a way of getting off the Enterprise and leaving this system. I think you have a ship coming for you. I plan to be on it. Omicron omicron alpha yellow daystar two seven. Enable. Greg, this is politics, and I'm not good at politics. Surelythere are others who are better suited. What is it you want? Who are you? Identify. We're right with you, Patterson. You're not going to fall. Everything will be all right if you just keep climbing. What we need is a climbing song. Marissa, is there a song you sing atschool? The cease fire has been broken. Make it so. We'll give you cover. Counsellor? Is he dead? Yes, that is so. Then you must be my uncle Rene. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Peace in our galaxy. Except, Admiral,you are not a man of peace. Your military record, what we know of it,is clear. I find that hard to believe. Thank you. Jono, you're not going to die at my hands or anyone else's. Yes, Doctor? We're losing the freighter. Got to beam those people overnow. Normally I would agree with you, but this time I feel thatsomehow it is different. There was a deadly earnestness about him. Ithink he's serious. Which means that in some fashion, I am going to bethe cause of the destruction of humanity. Perhaps I just needed a shoulder. Mister Data, do whatever is necessary to override theinterference. Let's complete our mission. The ship will be ready to leave orbit soon, and I belong onboard. If I should ever doubt that again, I know where to come. Report. Data, something has obviously gone wrong with your circuitry. Without evidence of intent, Number One, it will not be a simplematter. What went wrong? You know, don't you? What did you do? Whathappened? Why did you leave the ship? Don't turn away. Look at me. Picard! Look at me! On screen. Magnify. Is it a ship? Oh, hell. Go. I know that. Sorry I startled you. I knocked but there was no answer. Thedoor was open. I hope you don't mind. I'm going to beam him out of there. Actually, it's all your fault. Well, it will have to be. We are transporting you directly to thedetention cell. Oh no, I'm not. Everything that Starfleet stands for,everything that I have ever believed in, tells me I cannot ask youthat. But at the same time, there are twenty million lives down there, andyou know what happened to them. What will happen to them. Director Mandl, I put it to you again. Whatdo you know about these life forms? The Brekkians claim it belongs to them. Only enough to keep it alive, so that you could force it toshape itself into whatever form you needed! Identify. Hail them, Mister Worf. Well, I'm not sure that that is going to be enough. I've foundout that Jason has a criminal record. It's nothing very serious, it'sonly petty theft and so forth, but I can't help feeling that if I hadbeen part of his life then he wouldn't be so troubled now. We'll, um, we'll take a short recess. If I remember my biology, there are several natural immunesystems that come into play in the mother's womb to protect the foetusfrom viral infections. What's the situation, Number One? A possibility. Captain's log, Stardate 43463.7. We're holding aposition at the Neutral Zone border proximate to Nelvana Three. If ourguest is telling the truth, there are twenty one hours left before theRomulan base becomes functional. You have committed acts of aggression against the UnitedFederation of Planets. If you do not withdraw immediately Advise them of our status, Mister Worf. Go. Replicate what youneed, and see that the devices are properly distributed. Not forgetting Mister Crusher. Number One, do you remember what happened? You were abductedduring the mission to Tilonus Four. You were put into a psychiatrichospital. I do not see what I can do to assist. If you destroy this ship, then others will come in search ofus. You may not be able to stop them all. Knowledge of yourcivilisation would be spread across half the galaxy. Very well. Mister Worf, relay the prefix codes of the Phoenixto the Cardassian warship. I noticed several times during the briefing that you appearedto be a bit distracted. Well, Doctor, you're charging unknown seas. How do we proceed? Agreed. Is there a way to open the cell door? Stand by to increase speed to warp seven point three. On mymark. I hope for the sake of the project that I hope you're right,Doctor. Are they receiving us? Mister Data, continue your scan. Ensign, link navigationalcontrol to Mister Data's console and plot a course for that distortion. Lieutenant Worf. Your mother? Yes. Oh, you'll be interested to know that I've arranged for aCommander Riker Day next month. I'm even considering making an entrymyself. As you were. Mister Data, will you join mein my Ready room. Well now that you're here, you can help me carry those tools. Well, my cooking may not be up to Leah'sstandards, but I can still make a decent cup of tea. Oh, I read yourlast novel. I thought that the protagonist a little too flamboyant, butfor the rest I I commend your performance, Number One. Let's try and find out. Computer, download all informationregarding signal beacon from Starbase mainframe. Objection! It doesn't matter. Objectionwithdrawn. Set course for the new coordinates, Mister La Forge. Hunting them down is not what I am proposing. You're sure, Number One? Perrin, would you allow me to see Sarek? Lieutenant Ro. RO Helm, set course for the Devron system, warp five. I hope they're all safely back on the Enterprise by now. Of course. Then they will certainly be sending a ship of their own toinvestigate this Tin Man. Poorly timed. What can I do for you, Doctor? Counsellor, do they mean to carry out their threat? Good. Please. And feel free to examine the work of the otherstudents too. How long do we have shields based on current calculations? One moment, Captain. Captain Endar, last night Jono attacked mewith a dagger. And those same waves have been randomly striking differentareas of our ship as we orbit the planet and our angle to the generatorchanges. On screen. Arm phasers and photon torpedoes and stand by. I wish I could believe that. Using print-out only, notify all decks to prepare for maximumacceleration. Now hear this, Maximum, you're entitled to know, meansthat we'll be pushing our engines well beyond safety limits. Our hopeis to surprise whatever that is out there, try and outrun it. Our onlyother option is to tuck tail between our legs and return to Earth asthey demand. I'd like to take a closer look at those readings. These mercenaries use weapons that can activate theirtransporter. It gives them the opportunity to beam things quickly, justby firing at them. That's what they did to me. Captain to Riker, stand by. Signs of consciousness? Did he anticipate that these experiments might be dangerous? What sort of passenger? Seen it? What are you talking about? I haven't seen anymissile. We've had our problems with the Cardassians too, but now thatwe have a treaty, we're in a position to help. Your people have beenforced to resettle all over the quadrant. But now we can make alegitimate case with the Cardassians that this is not an isolatedproblem. We can work diplomatically on your behalf. But first, theseterrorist attacks must end. Ambassador, when you feel up to it, would you join me in myReady room? I'm running out of time. We all are. Data. Data, I have todestroy this. This control room and its technology must not be allowedto fall into Romulan hands. On viewer. This is the Enterprise. Captain Jean Luc Picard. What happened? Fire! Not you, Data. Just her. Jake, listen very carefully. This is Captain Picard and I amgiving you an order. Aim the shuttle at Relva! Doctor Crusher just called me with the results of the DNAcomparison. Ishara is Tasha's sister. Come. Yes, what is it, Number One? On screen! On screen! Let's see it! Do you know what could? And some would say they must be getting help. The Romulans areprepared to take enormous risks to gain any advantage over theFederation. Can we seriously believe that now, with the future of theKlingon Empire in the balance, they are content to stand by and watch? And Sarek? The people involved in this are of the highest calibre. If Ididn't believe in their loyalty, I wouldn't have gone this far. Data, report! Very well. Relay those coordinates to the transporter room. I'mbeaming down. Data, this is fascinating. Don't you agree, Mrs. Troi? Commander, if your duties permit, why don't you join us for dessert? I'm sure that Mrs. Troi would much appreciate the pleasure of yourcompany. I can't afford to take it easy, Doctor. Tell me,where is Lieutenant Commander Data? A captain's log? Number One, I want you to maintain this course for another hourPICARD I wish I could take you with me. What do you have, Mister La Forge? Fire another volley directly into their field, Mister Worf. Anna, Anna. wait a minute. Full sensors aft. Is it a life form, Data? Mister Data, could this be a Dyson Sphere? So you took the whole dose. No. But we've been on the outer rim for a while. We haven't hadmuch contact with them. Where's Worf? You have no right to put us through this just to satisfy yourcuriosity. 1 I'll have to speak to my tailor, but otherwise I'm well,thank you. It's just so ridiculous. I can't really take myselfseriously like this. Counsellor, if Doctor Crusher can't find a cure,if I have to stay this way, nobody's going to take me seriously, arethey? Picard. I don't think I told you, but I'm glad you're back on theEnterprise. I missed our friendship. Oh, yes, very convenient. We beam you back aboard your old shipand we have to take a risk that you won't change your mind and betrayus. Why? It still makes it our move. The good news. Thank you, Lieutenant. I appreciate the gesture, but I knowthat there are stronger and younger men from whom to choose. Good luck, Data. Mister Data, you have the Bridge. Do you think he will come? Make it so, Mister Worf. Enough! Sit down, Lieutenant. You are deliberately evasive andit must stop. You have kept information from me since our firstcommunication. An alien life form has taken possession of my MedicalLab. You knew of its existence. Any trace of the other vessel? I cannot permit that. The boy is my responsibility. I need water. Do as Data says. At once. What is it? Even if it leads you into a Romulan trap. I'm getting there. I'm going to have Engineering run a fullphysical on you. I'm sorry, Corey. He was reaching for a weapon. How would they react? Welcome to the Enterprise. I'm Captain Picard. Anything. Everything. I'll be in my Ready room if I'm needed. That will be all for now. Has Worf found anything? They appear to contain some sort of energy patterns. Can youisolate one of them and magnify? Why don't you answer my questions? What ship? I'd like to lookat the passenger list. Where have you been living here? What's yourposition? Who are your neighbours? Go ahead. It's happening again. 2 Mister Worf. Data? Request approved. Deanna, your mother might still come out of this. Engage. We'll lock on and pick you up. Oh, that's true. Well, I can't waive them again. Onlycommissioned officers. Well then, I've saved you the bother. Yes, we're causing it. Why? Considering where we are, we must assume it isn't. I beg your pardon? RO The source of this, Groppler. Do you have any idea? Well done, Lieutenant. You have access to it? How much hytritium did we manage to bring on board? Bok! Where is Bok? Changing course. Heading zero seven three, mark two eighteight. Damn it Will, I know why it's happening. We caused the anomalywith the tachyon pulse. It happened three times, Will. We did it inthree different time periods! It would give me a chance to take up Doctor Langford's offerand accompany her to the ruins on Suvin Four. But to leave theEnterprise. What happened? And when you grow to like it too much? First impressions? He's a thoughtful man. Informed. I didn't know that. Anna, are there other people on this planet? How long have youbeen here? Father and son. Both proud, both stubborn, more alike thaneither of them were prepared to admit. A lifetime spent buildingemotional barriers. They're very difficult to break down. And now thetime has come, it's too late. It's a difficult moment. It's a lonelyone. It's a moment Spock is about to face. I'm on my way. You have the Bridge, NumberOne. Your tactical knowledge and experience will serve them well. They left together. Darmok and Jalad on the ocean. Worf, can you improve our reception? My word! High praise from a Vulcan. Report back to the ship when you're ready, Commander. Doctor,we'll stay in orbit and analyse the remaining volcanic disturbances,but the best advice would be to let them cool down on their own. Perhaps the Enterprise has been delayed. Just as you fear me. What do you expect us to do now? You have left us with a colonyof Boraalans who think they're still on their planet. The same thing. But when you moved back toward me it gotbetter. Well, it seems as if we're stuck with each other. Full impulse. Take us straight through them. Still, there are some points that I'm not very clear about. Do you also realise that you would most likely be stripped downto your wires to find out what the hell has gone wrong? I know. He's been reported on Romulus. Picard to Lieutenant Worf. Yes, I am aware of them. Yes, What kind of disturbance? Admiral. So you did steal it? Seal off all decks. Lock on transporters to the intrudersignals. And they would claim the leadership of the Council? We don't have to like her, Will, but we have to follow herorders, and maintaining this atmosphere of confrontation serves nopurpose. This is Joret Dal. He was in the escape pod that we retrieved. He is a member of the Cardassian military, and a Federation operative. He has risked his life to bring us invaluable information aboutCardassian strategic intentions. Information that could very wellenhance the security of Bajor, as well as other planets in this sector. Now, it is absolutely imperative that we return him safely back toCardassian space. My apologies if I interrupted a waltz. Commander Data. Mister La Forge, why not go out and take a closer look. So we make an exception in the deaths of millions. Admiral Mendak, you have taken our Ambassador captive. Fire. A lot of questions, Number One. Damn fewanswers. On main viewer. Mister Worf, be sure we get tricorder images of their tacticaldisplay. Download the files to my Ready room. I'll study them there. You don't have to remind us of our duty. You just rememberyours. Ambassador, I urge you once more to reconsider. The Enterprisecan accommodate a Romulan delegation without sacrificing our securityor Well, Mister Crusher, communicate with your mother at StarfleetMedical headquarters. Give her my regards, and tell her you have mypermission to remain on the Enterprise, but I will abide by her wishes. I'm on my way. Captain's log, stardate 46693.1. We have enteredthe Bersallis star system and are making preparations to evacuate theFederation outpost on the third planet. And nothing shameful in a strategic retreat, either. There should be room for both in this life. And what about you,you old rascal. You've taken quite a shift into the future yourself. Not to me! Notify Starfleet. Priority. Hail the Ferengi on mycommand. Formulate alternatives. You're not thinking about leaving? That's a very adult bit of reasoning, Wes, Reset them, Mister Data. Not a relapse I hope. You say that with remarkable assuredness. Come. Timicin. Time for you to leave us,then? I'd like that very much. I had the very same tour. You're suggesting he created the problem just to solve it? We are capable of matter-energy transport. Data, shall we go? Gentlemen. Open. Then what is it you want? Q Exactly. When they try to bring their ships through, theEnterprise and the Tian Nan Men will swing around, close the gap andcatch them in the act. Is there any connection between the trial seven years ago andwhatever's going on now? Q Hold course, Mister Crusher. Continual fire, all phasers. Take us to warp six as soon as possible. Yes, that was Miranda, all right. Transporter room. lock on to the landing party. Beam them up. Mister Worf, is there some reason why you're trying to giveyourself more work? He believes the Daystrom annex on Galor Four would be moresuitable. I was just thinking that as distracting as it was, I wasbeginning to get used to hearing your thoughts and I find that I missit. Maybe. But she, or someone like her, will always be with us,waiting for the right climate in which to flourish, spreading fear inthe name of righteousness. Vigilance, Mister Worf, that is the price wehave to continually pay. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Hello, Doctor. Have you been briefed on what's happened? Interesting. Yes, that code hasn't been used in centuries. What's the hold up, Number One? Centre main viewer on that area. I see nothing, Commander. Mister Crusher, reconfigure working thrusters to manual input. There's a possibility he'll dismiss me from the Council. Doctor, we'll be arriving at Starbase one three three in a fewhours. That's the launch sequence? How do I override the doors? Together. Assign Commander La Forge to lead another away team to the digsite. I want to know why this happened. Report. Yes, I have completely recovered. And what better place to find oneself than on the streets ofone's home village. Even Parliament's peacemakers may find this case a littledifficult. Computer, pause playback. Come. Right, what's the next step? What were the readings for? Acknowledged. Number One? I do not pretend to fully understand thenuances of your world's law or culture, Lieutenant, but I do understandwhen somebody is trying to hide something. Mister Crusher, any heading, warp six. Now! But? Enterprise, advise Doctor Clark that the hostages are beingreleased. Tell them the human who destroyed their comrades is here andwishes to address them. No. So some external force was needed. There will be three Cardassianstransporting aboard. Their Captain, Gul Macet and two of his aides. Myintention is to be as open as possible with them, allow them to sharein our search for the Phoenix. Could it be Lore? Let me tell you about your sister. The first time I saw TashaYar, she was making her way through a Carnelian mine field to reach awounded colonist. Her ship had responded to their distress call, as hadmine. When it was all over, I requested that she be assigned to theEnterprise. Her ship's captain owed me a favour. In the months thatfollowed, she never once failed to put the safety of the crew beforeher own, and she died doing the same. I'm sorry you never knew thewoman Tasha became. I think you would have been proud of her. And sheof you. And what about Graves? Doctor, it's an important consideration. Stay alive. We'll hope to do the rest.  HAGON Pardek represented Romulus? Karnas, this is Picard. I'm sorry to inform you the Admiral iscritically ill. Data, do you remember when Hugh was on the Enterprise? Do youremember what you were like then? Would you rather endanger Deanna, a friend and a colleague,than tell me what is going on?! I'll go in your place. Adjust sensors to short range. Attempt a limited positron scan. Oh, they're already underway. I have an announcement for theentire Bridge. As many of you suspected, when our ship passed throughthe edge of this, it accidentally carried away a sentient being. Muchlike these energy patterns we're seeing here. A terrifying experiencefor anyintelligent being. As if a great claw had reached down and scooped oneof you from your home world. Drawn into the energy circuits of thisvessel, it found its way to you, Worf. Frantic at being carried fromits home world, and recognising you as sentient beings, it pleaded forhelp, but in ways youcouldn't understand. Desperately going from person to person, and thendiscovering the computer intelligence in this ship's memory circuits. Oh, simplistic intelligence, but it furnished it enough to slow thisEnterprise thing that had captured it. And it very much regrets theaccidental death of Engineer Singh. But if they have abused the boy, why would he so devoutly wishto return to them? A home which would look very different from Boraal. You can'treally believe that they'll be fooled. Let's hope. Proceed, Mister Worf. I spent many an hour there. It was my favourite spot to study. Such as? Engineering, give me status on power recovery. Engineering,come in. Why aren't they answering? La Forge. Two days? But that's not enough time. I'm sorry. It's a classified matter. I don't think so, Counsellor. Any prior malfunctions on this transporter unit? Granted. Minimum complement. Terminate communications. Come with me. Then it's possible. Communication, understanding. Commander. We shall find another choice. I want options and I want thembefore we encounter the Klingon ship. Lieutenant, I'm assigning you tohelp the Emissary. Dismissed. Number One? Proceed. Let's continue this discussion in private. Number One, you havethe Bridge. Dad! I should have listened to her. She told me someone was tryingto kill her. What was that, Commander? Prisoners on whose authority? Doctor, go back to the biofilter readouts taken of the awayteam's transport from the moon's surface. See if you can come up withany clue that might explain this. The pursuing ship is the Phoenix. What the hell is she doing? Again, Mister Worf. Yes, Ambassador. Please, sit down. We have entered orbit. Weshall be transporting you to the planet in a few minutes. By refusing to assist me, you left me with the same choice Ihad to began with. To try or not to try, to take a risk or to play itsafe. Your arguments have reminded me how precious the right to chooseis. And because I've never been one to play it safe, I choose to try. Mister Data, programme the firing sequence. Interfering in the internal matters of the J'naii is prohibitedby the Prime Directive. And his father? That is all I ask. Yes, I'm fine. I'm just a little disoriented, that's all. What's the treatment. And in the meantime, I would like to invite you all to join usthis evening on the Enterprise. Picard to La Forge. Thank you, no. I've come here to prevail upon your intelligenceand your insight. Does it pose a danger to the ship? Can this theory be proven? Mine as well. Make it so. Starfleet are adamant that we maintain excellent diplomaticrelations with this planet. Mister Data, is there any other pertinentinformation before we reply? That is beyond my purview. Acknowledged. Meet Commander Riker in Transporter roomthree. It would seem the intron virus is not limited to humanoidlifeforms. No, I'm the one who's sorry. Everything you said this morningwas absolutely correct. I feel that I have given you so little and youhave given me so much. Then I shall appoint you my executive officer in charge ofradishes. Mister La Forge, your best suggestion in an hour. Emergency. Full stop. Impulse engines. Ahead, minimum power. I see. Well, I would very much enjoy the opportunity to hearyou talk about your career. I'm sure you would have some fascinatinginsights into the events of your time. Counsellor, do you sense anything? But there is so much to gain and there is so little to lose bythe effort. The problem affects us all. It cannot be ignored. Picard here. Bridge to Engineering. Mister Data, we're reading How? Mister Data, notify Security to prepare a detention cell. Bridge to Engineering. Are you all right, Number One? Thank you, Ensign. Engage. Mister Worf, are you feeling all right? Ihat risked his life to show me that symbol, and Masaka killedhim for doing it. I think we have to risk it. I've told you everything I know. I'm not amused, Number One. There must be some way to convinceher that it's quite impossible, without offending her. No, on the contrary, I found your approach intriguing. Wehumans tend to take a rather balanced approach towards life. Never toomuch, never too little, and it's very nice to find a culture that iswilling to take an experience to its furthest extreme. That is regrettable. A lot more people are going to die. Ben Maxwell has just sent more than six hundred of them totheir deaths. I don't think so, Mister Data. Let's go on with the files. Bridge to La Forge. Why, it's the Stargazer. It's my old ship. How did you find it? Reprogram the torpedoes, Mister Worf. Let's hope we don't haveto use them. There are three moving indicators. Possibly the away team. We will await your signal. And we're still friends. Q The pity is that I had to be impaled through the back before Ilearned that lesson. I started that fight with those Nausicaans. Istarted it because, because I was young and cocky. If I'd been moreresponsible in those days, I wouldn't have needed this heart, and Iwouldn't have died from a random energy surge thirty years later. Q Encourage him in what? Then you shall have it. Mister Worf. I can give you books that will help. I'm going to go again, only this time I'm going to dress thepart. Why not come with me? Excuse me, Mister Worf. If you tell them the truth, what will happen? Will they believeyou? Make it so, Number One. Return to your position. An illusion. Magicians have been making things of all sortsdisappear for ages. I see. What is he saying, Number One? My turn? No, I'm not much of a story teller. Besides, youwouldn't understand. Shaka. when the walls fell. Perhaps that doesn'tmatter. You want to hear it anyway. There's a story, a very ancientone, from Earth. I'll try and remember it. Gilgamesh, a king. Gilgamesh, a king, at Uruk. He tormented his subjects. He made themangry. They cried out aloud, send us a companion for our king. Spare usfrom his madness. Enkidu, a wild man from the forest, entered the city. They fought in the temple. They fought in the street. Gilgameshdefeated Enkidu. They became great friends. Gilgamesh and Enkidu atUruk. We will comply when I have determined the cause of thedestruction of the Yamato, and when I am fully satisfied that you werenot responsible. Picard out. Well there should be no problem about our entering orbit. Iasked Commander Riker to contact the Vulcan authorities from theEnterprise and let them know that we were approaching. Answer me. Q But whether he's my son or not, he's in danger. Bok tried tokill me six years ago, and I don't doubt he will try to make good histhreat against the boy. Right. I don't know. And at this moment, I really have no idea whynot. Understood, Commander. Keep us informed of your efforts. Picardout. I'll be in Sickbay. It's not unlike much the history of my own planet. Take an away team. Mister Data, are we close enough for a scan? We'll have the transporter room standingby. But we may have to transport the Boraalans whether you're ready ornot. Please keep Mister Worf apprised. Tholl, our captors have transporters, they have stun beams. Itis hardly likely that they would try to hold us at bay with a knife. Well, I'm greatly impressed with everythingI've seen so far, Prime Minister. I wish I could believe you. Because of her relationship with me? I can assure you that I'm not given to casual relationships. There is something that I want to tell you. But nothere. Good Lord, Geordi. Well, how long has it been? I am interrogative, yes, and I would appreciate an explanation. Mister Fajo, I realise we have acquired your complete supply ofhytritium. Do you know where we could obtain some more? What's happening? Who's transferred the voice authorisation? I understand your feelings, Number One. I share them. Butperhaps the fault lies in ourselves. We were so eager to accept her. Each of us, myself included, wanted to see something of Tasha in thiswoman. We saw more than what was there. I'm contacting Starfleet to arrangetransport. Get those people prepared to evacuation. We may have to movequickly. Put it on the screen, Mister Data. Thank you, Doctor, Mister La Forge.  PICARD If we're going to trust our lives to these systems, we shouldbe certain they're not going to fail. Lieutenant, where are you? In the meantime, we have a few things to discuss. I've assigned you quarters during out time here. Please, makeyourselves comfortable. What did you do to them, Q? Q You're aware of the risks, Mister O'Brien? There hasn't been a Klingon raid against the Federation formore than seven years. We can't risk a diplomatic incident until wehave more evidence. On screen. But we have come to an agreement both sides are happy with,largely thanks to Captain Riker. Well done, Mister Crusher. Warp eight. Then what would you say if I were to tell you that she has nopowers whatsoever? Try and take us out of here. Maximum warp. Nothing. Nothing lies beneath. I'm really quite dull. I fallasleep each night with an old book in my hands. Yes, come in, Number One. Evacuated? Was the condition that critical? Shh. Wesley, you are going to have to keep a rein on Dirgo. He'swilful and stubborn. That's dangerous. What does that programme tell you about what you're doing toGeordi? About what you and Lore are doing to the Borg? It tells youthat these things are wrong, doesn't it, Data? So how can actions thatare wrong lead to a greater good? How's your search coming? Make it so, Mister Worf. We? For whom else do you speak? You were hurt. I had to make sure you were all right. No, no, Lieutenant, the advantage was yours. Come again. Engarde. Indeed. Are they truly incomprehensible? In my experience,communication is a matter of patience, imagination. I would like tobelieve these are qualities we have in sufficient measure. Did you get a direct look at it? What are you proposing? Well, I want you to put a stitch in time and, er, save muchmore than nine. Engage. Picard to main bridge. Data! I cannot give you what you want. Very well. Mister Data, begin a scan of the interior surfacefor life forms. I want to know who brought us in here and why. Number One. What are the allegations, Worf? Admiral. You've given me nothing to believe in. Just a lot of vague talkabout strange patterns, irrational proposals. Who's behind this, and towhat purpose? How are people being changed? If you each know the officers you inhabit, then you knowthey're equally ready to give their lives for this ship. Free them now and I will return you to the moon's surface. Is that what's behind the attack on my people? A memento. I need to speak with Ihat. Do you understand? Ihat. Get me some answers, Doctor. As soon as possible. I'm beginning to realise that you seem to always have someacerbic remark on the tip of your tongue. One more thing, Macet. Maxwell was right. Those ships were notcarrying scientific equipment, were they? A research station withinarm's reach of three Federation sectors? Cargo ships running with highenergy subspace fields that jam sensors? Yes, what is it, Number One? Have they estimated time for repairs? Make it so. Picard, Jean-Luc. Captain, Enterprise. Let's put all this together. Lieutenant Worf, multiple image,full conference mode. Let them all see each other. Report to Mister Data. Dismissed. Doctor Crusher, have you been monitoring all this? Klingon cruiser, this is Captain Jean Luc Picard of the USSEnterprise. Q. I knew it. What's going on? Q Initiate auto-destruct. Interval, twenty minutes. Exactly what do you find unfair, Lutan? They fought to the death. You saw the final blow. You knowthe effects of your poison. So Spot was giving birth to the kittens at the same time thatshe was changing into a reptilian lifeform. Number One, what's going on? Tactical analysis, Mister Data. Picard to Riker. I don't denying that it may be necessary to fire on it. But Ilook on that as a last resort. I didn't want you thinking me harsh. Cold blooded. Commander Riker will join you in a moment. No, I'm not. I'm just hypothesising that he's in love with you. We do not condone your actions. You're attempting to salve yourconscience by offering goods in exchange for our children. Understood, Lieutenant, but I suspect that Commander Riker isprobably perfectly safe, at least in a physical sense. Q has aninterest in him. In fact, Q's entire visit has something to do with ourFirst Officer. You've spent a good deal of time on the surface. How do yousuggest we change their minds? Would these triolic waves be dangerous to humanoids? Miss Odell, I My name is Jean-Luc Picard. This is my associate Deanna Troi. Your arrogant pretence at being the moral guardians of theuniverse strikes me as being hollow, Q. I see no evidence that you areguided by a superior moral code, or any code whatsoever. You may benearly omnipotent, and I don't deny that your parlour tricks are veryimpressive, but morality? I don't see it. I don't acknowledge it, Q. Iwould put human morality against the Q's any day. And perhaps that'sthe reason that we fascinate you so. Because our puny behaviour showsyou a glimmer of the one thing that evades your omnipotence, a moralcentre. And if so, I can think of no crueller irony than that youshould destroy this young woman, whose only crime is that she's toohuman. Q Then what is the purpose of your journey? It seemed, Admiral, that they knew ourcourse, our destination, our plan. Even my sensory perception picked that up. Computer, reinstate holodeck three programme. Yes, Number One. What is it? On my way, Number One. Sorry, Doctor. Duty calls. Well, thanks again for manning one of our bridge stations,Wesley. We'll see that you have another chance. Suggestions, Mister Data? The uniform. It's totally inappropriate. I should have changed. I see no need for it to be difficult at all. I understand yourconcerns. What I'm asking for is time, patience. If you have an openmind, I'm sure you will see that it is imperative that Data and Lal bekept together during the formative stages of her development. Afterthat, I have no doubt Commander Data will be delighted to deliver herto Starfleet Research. Indeed. It will be visible directly ahead. Well, as long as he's here. I knew your father, Wesley. Want alook around? And no apparent explanation for the energy loss? Of course. All right, let's take a closer look. Perhaps we can findsomething that will give us a more positive identification. Helm, takeus through the debris field, ahead slow. That war cost you hundreds of thousands of lives. It depletedyour food supplies, left your population weakened and miserable and yetyou risk another war. Broccoli? Boothby? Jean-Luc Picard, class of twenty seven. Hail them. You can tell Baran if he wants the analysis done faster, he cando it himself. If he wants it done correctly, he can wait. Picard to Engineering. No! I never sought that rubbish. It's one possibility. Mister Worf, bring Ensign DeSeve to myReady room. Some of them, yes. Are you suggesting there was a Romulan accomplice in closeproximity to La Forge when he was receiving the signals? Yes. What, what's that? What's that, Wesley? All I'm saying is that it's something we have to be aware of. But you mustn't compromise yourself. You must do what you have to do. Because if I find that my head of Stellar Sciences isn't beingeffective, then I shall do what I must to do and I shall replace her. In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes, for they in thee athousand errors see. But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,who in despite of view are please'd to dote. Shall I compare the to asummer's day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate. Commander Daren. About these thermal deflectors. I'm sure Counsellor Troi appreciates the opportunity to spendtime with her mother. Maintain our present course and speed for now. I'm going tofind out when and where we're supposed to deliver our cargo. Yes. No secrets here if we're to be all to be friends. Agreed,Groppler? It's modifying the emitter diode to project something. Report, Lieutenant. And even to reverse death itself. Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Excellent. Mister Worf, where are the Romulans? Quite possibly. Resume programme. Can you remove it? Don't struggle, Data. The strategic decision is to send one ship. DaiMon, clearly there has been some misunderstanding. I thinkit would be in all interests if you were to come aboard and we discussthis situation. Ensign, what are you doing? Yes, sir. This way. I also once asked you if you were doing this of your ownaccord. May I sleep on it? Both. I think it is perhaps best to be ignorant of certainelements of Klingon psyche. Make it so. Doctor. Are you sure that you wouldn't like to stay on board theEnterprise for a few more days? Very good, Commander. The last three nights I've, I've heard these voices. I'm on thebridge of my old ship. There's fire all around me. The klaxons, smoke. And then I give the order. And now the Stargazer is really here!. Andthat log. Am I going crazy? How do I know I was in my right mind atMaxia? How do I know I'm in my right mind now? Not you too. Then he's still in Cardassian space? Open hailing frequencies. Oh, yes. Oh, yes, I have no doubt. I'm afraid the truth is, you got lost in the bureaucracy. Butdespite the lateness of our arrival, we're here now and we're eager torenew ties. She's a, the doll's my cousin. I'd like to ask your permission to build something. Afraid of what? Mister Worf, try to reestablish. Can you tell if it was built by the Borg? Data. Agreed. Tell me, how long have you held your appointment onboard thisvessel? I have decided to accept your proposal. We've obviously brought a very dangerouslife form aboard this ship. I want to minimize the chances of anyincident. There's still much to do. Still so much to learn. Mister LaForge, engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Mister La Forge, what if you begin to change? What if you feelcompelled to go down to the planet like the others? Reverse angle. Captain to First Officer. I'm beaming down. I wouldn't worry about it. Something tells me that you're goingto have to put up with me for a long time to come. Get Rocha's personnel file from Starfleet Command, and askStarbase two twelve to help us find that shuttle. Q! We're here! This has gone on long enough! Counsellor, do yousense an alien presence? Of course. You're right, Number One. It's a task that I willattend to. We'll get you some quarters. Doctor, is it absolutely necessary to see the medical files toattempt treatment? Doctor Barron, I cannot, I will not, impose a set ofcommandments on these people. To do so violates the very essence of thePrime Directive. As Lieutenant Worf discovered. Did you ever consider applying to the Academy, going the wholeroute, apply to become an officer? Doctor, what exactly is this? Very good. Now, keep singing. Until we return, then. They were found in crates marked Medical Supplies. What's wrong? Negative, Number One. They're just reacting to our closepursuit. Fall back a bit but stay with them. You're being a mother hen. I appreciate your concern. ActuallyI'm looking forward to meeting this mediator. Arveda Three? That's such a tragedy. Did she survive? Why? Standard orbit. Number One, we have been exemplary in our patience. I'm on my way. You also see things in a way we do not, but as they truly are. I need help, my friend. I cannot permit that boy or any member of thisvessel be sacrificed. The Prime Directive never intended that. Listen to me, all of you! Drop your weapons! Do it! Don't makeany aggressive movements. The resonatoramplifies violent feelings and emotions. And that's why you wanted meto pick up the phaser. That's how you were able to kill Narik andVekor. But I can see the symbol on that third artefact, and it is theVulcan symbol for peace standing between the symbols for war and death. It's a warning that the power of the resonator can be overcome bypeace. I couldn't sleep either. So am I, Mister Worf. Picard here. Mister Data, I'll need your help to monitor the sensor readingsduring this investigation. Impressions, Mister Worf? No, Data. Neither am I. I'll let my Medical Officer handle it. How is the energy being used. Doctor Crusher, please report to the Bridge. Now, we'll seewhat they have in mind. You really believe I would leave you here? There's no pain. It would appear I don't have any broken ribsafter all. Inexcusable. And understandable. It may be that what you arelooking for cannot be found here on the Enterprise. Perhaps you need toimmerse yourself in Klingon beliefs in order to discover whether theycan hold any truths for you. Is there something you can do, is theresomewhere you could go to explore your faith more fully? That's sound advice at any time, Captain. Then, Mister Data, I'm going to ask you again, and I order youto directly answer me. What really happened to us? Especially under these circumstances. Sensor scans, Mister Worf. Since Professor Moriarty never actually left the holodeck, hemay demand that Commander Riker help him to do so. How long until theplanetary collision? Brace yourself for impact. Magnify. I believe a very important scientific discovery awaits us onthis heading. Good. Lock onto their coordinates. Beam them up directly toSickbay. Doctor Crusher, prepare for a Medical Emergency. Two to beamdirectly up to Sickbay. I'm really not certain, but there are similarities between thisculture and others that I've studied. I would imagine I'm just going toimprovise. Mister Worf, what's our status? Is he still tending grounds, or have the years finally caughtup with him? Captain Shumar, how do you intend to achieve this rest that youso desire? I convinced them I was a smuggler. Will, these are not commonthieves. They are stealing Romulan artefacts from archeological sitesthroughout this sector. Meanwhile, you can sit here and learn something. My superintendent was a Betazoid, a full telepath. When he sentfor you to his office, he didn't have to ask what you'd done. If I were, would you give it? So it's your desire to leave the holodeck to be with him. When least expected. Well, it's certainly not my idea. I'm sorry, Ensign, I didn'tmean to take it out on you. I just hate the prospect of another damnedcardiac replacement. All right, fine, good, let's throw the Prime Directive to thewinds. Let's detain her against her will. Let's destroy any chance ofpeace between these worlds. Let's interfere in their society, theircustoms. Riva is in charge of the summit. I command the ship that bringshim. I will not endanger this ship under any circumstances. Dream not of today. The night blessing of the Yash-El. You took this weapon from the rebels? Do we know that for sure? They want to go home. I see that Ligos Seven is prone to periodic volcanicactivity. Perhaps the planet has entered an active phase. Ro is on that ship? Now that would be extremely helpful. I'll check the fuel consumption logs. In thirteen hours we'll be forced to eitherwithdraw from the border or fight the Romulan fleet. Neitheralternative is acceptable. We must expose their involvement before thedeadline. My only regret is that it took us three years to find asuitable sun after you had first contacted us. Karnas could have worked for peace during those years insteadof continuing the war. It's not all on your head, Admiral. I'm sure that Lieutenant Riker will be happy to help you withthat. How long before I begin to change? Is there any way that we can scan the interior? Can you identify the origin of the infection, Doctor? It's their way, Lieutenant. Do they have our coordinates? I am aware of the risks, Ensign. When the umbilical splits, weshould regain primary control, do you agree? Who were in danger? There's no way out of here. Do you have injuries? Can we assist you in any way? Lay in a new course. I'm on my way. At that speed, Mister La Forge, there won'tbe a ship left to reach the Pelloris Field. Do what you have to. But. Damn it. Not half as much as this damn headache. Take over, Number One. Impossible. Please report to the Bridge. RO What else would it be? My heart was injured and a replacementwas necessary. That would have been it, except that the replacement isfaulty. No, I'll go down there myself. Keep me apprised. Arrange to feed it. There is a provision in the Federation Constitution thatprotects an individual's fundamental rights. Now once you were broughtaboard this ship Let them knit? Mister DeSeve, in your opinion is it possible that we'repicking up a cloaked Romulan ship? I detonate it. But how? How do I do that? Go ahead, Number One. Commander Korris, this is Captain Picard. Delightful. Tell me, why is the corridor so quiet? The lasttime I was here, it was bustling with activity. No. That was your own damn stubborn pride. Well, I'm the designated host. It would be a most awkwardtransition. You're the next likely choice. And Mister Mendozawill certainly agree. He's quite impressed by your natural instincts. Mrs. Troi, your government expects us to deliver you to theconference on time, and that's what I intend to do. Open a channel. You know, Doctor, I have been more than fair. I have doneeverything I can to substantiateyour, your perceptions of a You know, you've been at this for hours. You might think moreclearly if you got a good night's sleep. Geordi, what's happening? We had better disable the site to site transport function. Doctor, one does not beam down to Starfleet Headquarters armed. Doctor, protocol may have been lax on your last assignment, buthere on the Enterprise. To each his own, Number One. Acknowledged. Picard to Crusher. I have an away team on the planet. We are waiting for a windowin the storm to beam them up. Go ahead, Number One. I'm Jean-Luc Picard. Welcome aboard the Enterprise, CaptainScott. Really? What is your scientific basis for that? Is there anything I can do? We're your colleagues. You can trust us. Everything will be allright On screen. Open a channel. All right, begin a phase one search, starting with theshuttlecraft's last known coordinates. Plot a proximity course towardthe star. As you can see, we're having difficulty with the plasmaconduits. No. I don't want to risk implicating them. Not until I havesolid evidence that something really is wrong. I'm surprised that you let her come in here. Give me what you have now. Apparently, his squadron was practicing on the Academy flightrange near Saturn. they were flying a close formation. There was acollision. All five ships were destroyed. Four of the cadets managed totransport out. One didn't make it. Jason, when your mother and I parted, I lost track of hercompletely. But I would like to know more about what happened to her,if you wouldn't mind telling me. Q, I'm not going to play along with this. If you want tocontinue this charade, you can do it alone. Q Cease fire. Mister O'Brien, energise. Go ahead. As O'Brien didn't remember Doctor Quaice. He is very ill, Perrin. But if we lose the force field for any reason, we lose theship. Force fields can fail, and until I've stopped the bleeding. If any man, woman or child on this ship is harmed as a resultof your experiment, I will have your head before the highest command inthe Federation. I understand. Perhaps your system of law and punishment isbetter than any system we once had. But we do now have a law I mustobey. And part of it says I must protect my people from harm. If the possibility exists, no matter how slight, that theseexocomps are lifeforms, then we must examine that possibility. You didn't do it. There must be a way to avoid this. Data. Thank you. Computer, identify malfunction immediately. It is a self-induced catatonic state. Their way of dealing withthe trauma of spaceflight. I beg your pardon. Doctor Timicin, allow me to present LwaxanaTroi of Betazed. She's also a guest on board, and Well, we could wait as long as possible for you to be returned,Number One, but when the spatial ruptures begin to threaten the ship,then we would have to transmit that graviton pulse. Of what? Understood. Number One? Set a course. No, he admits his mistake in falsifying his application. Thatdoes not make him a traitor. What is the matter with these people? How can he be Captain ofthat vessel and not understand its simplest function? That's right. Sounds, Smells. Then I'm not sure that there's much that we can do. Something about your location is interfering withcommunication. We are working on the problem. Captain, I would just like you to know that Commander Riker is Doctor Crusher and I are prepared to conclude our negotiations. It has been brought to my attention that you have been told toremain in here. Oh, I haven't been called that for some time either. The Senior Design Engineer of the Theoretical Propulsion Group. Doctor Leah Brahms. Worf, inform the engine room we need more. Resume. Full cooperation, Number One. Data? All right, explain this procedure. What was the date when you crashed? Doctor, how desperate is the colony'ssituation? Proceed. I assume the Vorgons have proof to back up their claim. I have no choice but to believe you. The safety of my entirecrew is at stake, but I must be sure. Very well, Counsellor, go ahead. But bear in mind that wheneverwe have tried to hinder their efforts, we've failed. Perhaps it's timeto cooperate with them. CONDUCTOR A narrow vision. You will become one with the Borg. You willall become one with the Borg. The android, Data. Primitive artificialorganism. You will be obsolete in the new order. World, not galaxy. All the world's a stage. Q Yes. Very unlikely. No, that's true. I'm not Ardra. but I can create tremors justas she did. Keep an eye on it. Mister Worf, any luck? Counsellor, it took five men to restrain him and he took aparthalf of the Transporter Room in the process. What is it? Fire in sequence. Meaning? Has your analysis suggested any way in which we might seal thisrupture? Ensign Anaya, full about. Half impulse. Knowing where the flaw is located, can you isolate the problemand solve it? Very well. I suggest a steady pace, not a brisk one. We need toration our energy. Try breathing through your nose. That way it willhelp to prevent dehydration. I'll lead. Captain Dirgo, will you bringup the rear? There, that's much better. Now, do you want to try it again? Your reputation precedes you. I'm very pleased you're going tobe improving our system. Probable impact? One of the most ancient formations in the galaxy. Debin, hold this position. Viewer off. Data, identify. And you are telling me there are noexplanations for these malfunctions? But can they be removed from the hull? Yes, that is one possible definition. You saw what that thing was about to do. What? What do you want? Mister Worf, post security guards at all emergency airlocks ondecks Rest assured we shall not leave until he is located. Me? Q Keep me advised, Doctor. Agreed. But we can't stay in this area too long. You have ninehours. If you can get her underway by then,we'll escort her back to Starbase one oh five. If not, we'll evacuatethe survivors and destroy the ship. We have confirmed that Data's discovery islife. But more than that, it is intelligent life. Do we have their position? Chief O'Brien. Geordi. La Barre, France. Being the only Klingon ever to serve in Starfleet gave you asingular distinction, but I felt that what was unique about you wasyour humanity, compassion, generosity, fairness. You took the bestqualities of humanity and made them part of you. The result was a manwho I was proud to call one of my officers. I'll have your belongingstransported to the Bortas. How did you get here? Changing course new heading two nine nine mark zero two nine. Obviously Starfleet feels that time is of the essence. Picard, of the Enterprise. What about Durken? I'm sure you are. Sit down. What would you like? I'm pleased to hear that, Gul Dolak, for all of us in theFederation value the peaceful relations with our Cardassian neighbours. I care about, I care about what happens on board my ship. A place where we can watch your people. Doesn't sound too serious. I can't say, Number One. But at least they're not new enemies. The Federation could wind up buying a proverbial lemon. It was my error, not hers. Chancellor, there is no starshipmission more dangerous than that of first contact. We never know whatwe will face when we open the door on a new world, how we will begreeted, what exactly the dangers will be. Centuries ago, a disastrouscontact with the Klingon Empire led to decades of war. It was decidedthen we would do surveillance before making contact. It was acontroversial decision. I believe it prevented more problems than itcreated. Mister Worf? Just what are your plans, Mister Okona? To many people. Data, can you locate the signal? Transporter Room, energise. Computer, end programme. All right then. Good luck. Thank you, Lieutenant. On screen. No, but it may be enough to turn us into orbit, hold ourdistance from the photosphere. Ensign, port thrusters ahead full,starboard thrusters back full. What about the shrieking noises that you made? Magnify. Obviously. But why? What made our captors choose us? What makesus special? Why don't you sit at Ops next to Lieutenant La Forge. This is the Captain. We have arrived at the Tyran system. All senior staff to the Bridge. I would like to see that contract. In this situation, Prime Directive prohibits me from helpingyou. I'll be in my ready room. And Number One, good work. Mister La Forge. Unfortunately, they are currently in their hibernation cycle,However, they will awaken in six months, at which time we can get thismatter settled. Now, do you want to wait or give me my three weeks? I have come on an urgent mission from the Federation. I'mlooking for Ambassador Spock. That would explain why they're so far awayfrom Romulan space. To avoid being picked up on Federation long rangescans. Understood. If you need me. Maintain a sensor lock on the torpedo, Mister Worf. We'll haveto go after it. I see. Data, let's proceed without the pipe. We came to investigate a battle. We rescued three Klingonsurvivors. I don't have time to discuss it now, Mister Data. Do themodifications and send out the pulse. Then try working on a theory asto what caused this rupture. Mister O'Brien, how large is this anomaly? We were saddened by those events but they occurred within thedesignated borders of the Cardassian Empire. From that window, I could see an entire, er Bridge to Commander Riker. Check with Mister La Forge. See ifhe found anything in the matter sample from the nebula. Just explain what brought us here. Moving trilithium resin requires veryspecific equipment. You can't simply improvise something. This way. Data, you will never know just how much Iowe you for that. Oh. So that's why you married me. That question is irrelevant here. Very impressive. There's something you should know. A mischievous spirit. No luck? Oh, er, thank you, Mister Data. Actually, I used to be quite acard player in my youth, you know. I should have done this a long timeago. You can tell Baran every word that I've said. He knows that Idon't think much of him as a leader. On screen. Ah, but you are also a man of great importance and wealth. They appear dead. Let's see if we can get some answers fromBynaus. In ways that I cannot even begin to calculate. No, they can't. However, the claim 'I was only followingorders' has been used to justify too many tragedies in our history. Starfleet doesn't want officers who will blindly follow orders withoutanalysing the situation. Your actions were appropriate for thecircumstances, and I have noted that in your record. Mister Data, based on your analysis, whatis the current Romulan strategy behind the deployment of their ships inthis sector? Initiate auto-destruct sequence. Isn't there? Good. And the unknown can be benign or malevolent. Its telemetry failed. It was never heardfrom again. Do you believe that you've discovered the remains ofColonel Richey? Slow to half impulse. Let him go. On viewer. How do we stop it? Explains what? Look, I don't wish to appear rude, but I am not seekingjamaharon. What about life signs? When I have plucked the rose, I cannot give it vital growthagain. It needs must wither. Nine, eight. 'Tis better to have loved andlost than never to have loved at all. Seven, six He's his father's son. Honest, trusting, strong. He's doubled back on us. A defection? How does this resignation threaten the ship and its crew in anyway? Neither was I. You seemed a bit overwhelmed by all the attention. RO Admiral, she is under the strict guidance of a woman in whom Ihave absolute trust. Ten Forward is the centre of the ship's socialactivity. Everyone on board comes here. Perhaps Data's recent flash of emotion has something to do withthis. It could have affected him more profoundly than we realise. Either way, we have to find him. Good luck, Captain. Arabian. The Arabs believed that Allah gathered the south windand made the horse. We recreated your science lab in every conceivable detail. Essentially, what was in the original lab is here. Why do you resist? We only wish to raise quality of life forall species. I wish I could see a way. I can imagine. History is aware of the role you played, Ambassador. What's the problem, Mister Data? Mister Elbrun, one of the reasons I'm asking you to workclosely with a member of my staff is to avoid any further omissions. The possibility of an encounter with Romulans on this mission is hardlytrivial. And yet Now. I am Jean Luc Picard, Captain of this vessel. Stand by to initiate the graviton pulse. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Starship Enterprise. Youare in Federation territory. Please explain your presence here. Will, please. Q! It's safe to say that you're his bestfriend. Is it possible to speculate about what's happening to him? Begin your calculations, Mister Data. We'll go as soon asyou're ready. You feel the Hathaway has value? We deny you your prize. Fire! Wesley. WESLEY How long? Picard to Bridge. I'll give it serious thought. Number One. On screen. Number One, have you been monitoring communications? This is not a discussion. You're restricted to your quartersfor the remainder of this mission. Dismissed. RO Yes, I've felt that. But why now, suddenly. Moving? Prime Minister. On my monitor, Lieutenant. Admiral. We'll respect your wishes. Mister Worf, take charge of the Doctor. Mister Data, shut downthe transmission. Set a course for the Garadius system. Warp six. What? I'm aware of the legend. It tells of a visitor from thefuture who left behind a mysterious device known as the Tox Uthat. Begin emergency evacuation. Stand by for saucer separation,Mister La Forge, can you remove the charge from the engine core? Would Timothy also be more inclined to tell Data the truthabout what happened? Hello. Then why don't you just take your ships across? Commander. Well done. But we must measure our response carefully, or history mayremember Galorndon Core along with Pearl Harbour and Station Salem Oneas the stage for a bloody preamble to war. With so little of even our galaxy explored, I find it at leastpossible. It's Terran. That's right. If you have a problem with any of this, I need toknow it now. RO Why? We need to know as much as possible about Ligonian armaments. Data, especially important is an analysis of their combat capabilities. Geordi, concentrate on their cutting edges, wherever applicable,durability, composition, weaknesses of material. Well, whatever it is we're looking for, it seems we've foundit. I call to the stand Commander Bruce Maddox as a hostilewitness. Number One, we've picked up an automatedsignal from a Federation shuttlecraft. Anna, why was this door locked from the outside? Then, Ensign Crusher, set course for the Epsilon Sector, warpfive. Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. You let their emotion sway you. You accused me of being the representative of a barbarousspecies. Q Professor, I ask you to believe me when I say that we do notknow how or why you are able to exist off the holodeck. You would be so despicable? Q Complete waste of time. Ensign Gates. I would have believed I didn't need children to complete mylife. Now I couldn't imagine life without them. Captain to away team. We're standingby. Come. Look, I've been smuggling artefacts from Federation sites foryears. You can't help developing a familiarity with certain Starfleetpersonnel. If we hadn't have captured him, he'd probably have ended upbefore a court martial. Was Commander La Forge able to provide you with the specialcargo handling provisions you requested? This is Picard of the Enterprise. Please will you repeat yourmessage? Mister La Forge. Jason. Your being here? I hope it will give us the chance toget to know each other. Ambassador Take us to it. Exactly, Number One. That sounds like animals. Tune that down! Commander Riker, come in. Can you hear me? Time? Stand by. Who is this? Proceed when ready. Don't worry. There's a new ship's standing order on the Bridge. When one is in the penalty box, tears are permitted. Prepare the shuttle for immediate departure. Well, there is a Klingon vessel in the area. Where? The last time I saw Admiral Quinn he tried to warn me about asubversion within the Federation. Then Walker tried, and he's dead. I appreciate that. Computer, resume. Well, Number One, let's go and welcome the Admiral aboard. Cancel auto-destruct. And so the question becomes not who, since it clearly was oneof the three remaining terraformers. The question becomes why? What arethey hiding? What could be so important that one or all of them, couldbe desperate enough to kill? He's dead. That's the official record. Now that was a simple misunderstanding. On screen. Suggestions? You realise your career is finished. Mister Data, report. I will? Vigo, is that you? I'm not accustomed to seeing anunsatisfactory rating for one of my crew. That's all of them except for the two on the Bridge. Waithere until I return. Because I want you to understand what my music means to me. Andwhat it means for me to be able to share it with someone. A pity you weren't a bit more inventive. If fewer things haddisappeared, we might never have suspected you. As it was, the onlystumbling block was your ship. Our sensors couldn't penetrate it. Butonce the door was opened, the computer was able to detect anddeactivate everything you'd stolen, including this. They've given away their humanity with this geneticmanipulation. Many of the qualities that they breed out, theuncertainty, the self-discovery, the unknown, those are many of thequalities that make life worth living. Well, at least to me. I wouldn't want to live knowing that my future was written, that myboundaries had been already set, would you? On screen. This is Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise,representing the United Federation of Planets. Ensign, are you suggesting this energy is not naturallyoccurring? Full stop. Go ahead. To judge what kind of life forms we are? This is the Enterprise. Are there other planets in this star system? Do you visit othersystems? All right. Do you have a communication system here? How do yousend messages to other communities, to other places? We cannot make Mister Data our priority. I would like to have a word with you. Counsellor, it's not actually an infection. I have the means. But first I must see my people. Well done. Picard out. They reverted to a simpler existence? You are Federation citizens. Your actions are in violation ofour treaty with the Cardassians. Call off your attack. Good? Data, isn't good and bad, right and wrong, a function ofyour ethicalprogramme? We are at a desperate impasse in the Peliar system. The attackon the shuttlecraft has inflamed the dispute. Commander. I believe the starship Sutherland will need acaptain. I can think of no one better suited to the task thanyou. DATA Cheating the Nausicaans could have serious consequences for allof us. It's a risk we can't afford to take. I hope their scout ship makes contact soon. It's not a goodidea to stay too long on a Cardassian border without making yourintentions known. Oh. She was a botanist, then? I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation StarshipEnterprise. We were just going to ask you the same thing. Your field generator on the planet surface has been sending outharmless energy charges, which this facsimile has been converting intoKrieger waves. We may not be back here in your lifetime. And I have to believethat you cannot be fully prepared for the realities of space travel. We'll try and keep them occupied until you arrive. Mister Worf, let's raise our voice a little. Fire phasers. Justa warning shot. Mister Data, invite them to stand to. Until I disappear. Transfer emergency power to the antimattercontainment system! Well, we've thrown down the gauntlet. Let's see if they pick itup. The Narendra Three outpost was destroyed. It is regrettablethat you did not succeed. A Federation starship rescuing a Klingonoutpost might have averted twenty years of war. Well, try and rest. Take the necessary sleep inducements if youhave to. And a ship's cloaking field? Load torpedo bays. Arm phasers. lock coordinates on the sourceof the tractor beam. I won't insult you by pretending that any of this will be easy. But I can tell you that the Enterprise will not leave them behind. Youcan be assured of that. Fire when ready. And another William Riker materialised there. These are all very important questions, and perhaps I will findanswers to them in the past, but now we have a potentially dangerousthreat from the Romulans. I want all departments to present a battlereadiness report to me at oh eight hundred hours tomorrow morning. Dismissed. Are they collaborators? Did they providethe colony's assailants with something that abetted the totaldestruction of Rana Four in order to protect their own lives? Which teams are missing? Commander Riker, report. We will end this war, if you will end the war. I was concerned. I came to see if I could be of any help. Will you lock onto our signals. I want you to beam CounsellorTroi to I thought that I had made that clear. Ready phasers. Your son? Go ahead. Why don't you do it? It's a long way down. Must betwo hundred metres. You'd die instantly, if that's what you want. But Idon't think that it really is. You're doing all you can. Boreth is only twelve days from here by shuttle. As of thismoment, Mister Worf, you are on leave. The fragment will have serious effects on your planet withinsix days. Exactly. How do I explain my refusing to obey their laws downthere. Not permitting the Crusher boy to be executed. And by so doingdo I endanger this vessel and more than a thousand other lives? Red Alert! All crew to battle stations. It has something to do with Counsellor Troi. Somehow when it'sdealing with her, the energy field is affected. I want to talk to her. I'm going to beam down. Lieutenant Worf, you have the conn. Gentlemen, we need to find that source if we are to defeat thiswoman. We still have no idea what you represent. The man is dying. And it's my honour to tell him that his sonmay have betrayed the Federation. If we go to the aid of the Bortas, we'll be dragging theFederation into a Klingon civil war. DATA, lock on to the Yamato with a tractor beam. We leavetogether. Come. I was selfish. I thought I wouldn't see you again. I'm sorry. Mister Data, this channel will remain open. Pleasecontinue to report. Adjust the axial stabilisers to match the attitude and rotationrate of the Enterprise, I'm going to dock the shuttle manually. The Arboretum. A simple handshake would have sufficed. What is this place? They're still your people. I have a feeling they will choose to. Mister Crusher, setcoordinates for Starbase Lya Three. Lieutenant! Do you intend to blast a hole through the viewer? If the purpose of this is to test humans, your honour, we must proceedin our own way. Q We will not arrive in your star system for at least threeweeks. That will give us plenty of time to discuss this further. If he doesn't help us, we'll have to destroy the outpost andkill everyone on it. He's still a Starfleet officer. He won't want totake innocent lives if he can possibly prevent it. We've invited Anya to take a tour of the ship. Maybe you would like to join her? On screen. I recognise that you're trying to satisfy my conditions. Uh huh. Where did it originate? But there are points in the negotiations that Briam still hasto address. If you're right about this then perhaps we can escape the loopby avoiding the collision. If you wish to believe that my going home is a direct result ofbeing held captive by the Borg, be my guest. Good. Helm, move us into a higher orbit so that we may keep thesurface of the planet under surveillance. Thank you, Number One. Well done. And well done all. Kill who? Doctor! Mister Worf, determine what these people may have in the way ofemergency needs and provide for them. Thank you. Commander K'Nera, this is Captain Picard. No! It is wrong. It is wrong! A lifetime of discipline washedaway, and in its place bedlam. Bedlam! I am so old. There is nothingleft but dry bones and dead friends. Tired, oh so tired. I see nothing so bitter about that. How many outposts are there in this sector? Contact Starfleet. Find out what they know about Korris andcompany. I'm sorry, I must have misunderstood. Can you locate the Krayton? Report. Baran wouldn't last five minutes as captain if he didn't havethat control device. The crew follow him because they have no choice. Baran's power is based on fear and intimidation. Computer, freeze programme! Variations on a theme. Computer,perhaps I am not clearly defining my intent. What if it doesn't work? What if they become aware thatsomething strange is going on? Red alert. Understood. Keep me appraised, Commander. Do you know that for a fact, Kevin? Mister Worf must have overridden the sensor codes, played someholographic games. Mister Data, input a new code. Attack posture, circumvental attitude. Prepare beams for photon mode. Lieutenant Worf, bring the Admiral up here. And whatever happens down there, your prime responsibility isto the ship. Commander Riker, Counsellor, Doctor. John, I want you to joinus. Mister Data, you have the Bridge. Mister Worf stay at Tactical. Counter any moves the Zalkonian makes. He has indeed, Commander. And believe me, it's good to beback. Yes, sir. Oh yes. Security measures must be taken before we beam it on board. We have a moon inexplicably falling out of orbit, and just nowthis ship was probed with Berthold radiation. Q Voval. Voval, try not to move. You may have a concussion. Picard to Enterprise. Picard to Enterprise, do you read me? Too muchinterference. Acknowledged. Perrin. Amanda. I wanted to give you so much more. I wanted toshow you such tenderness. But that is not our way. Spock, Amanda, didyou know? Perrin, can you know how much I love you? I do love you! Wesley, you have to measure your successes and your failureswithin, not by anything I or anyone else might think. But, if it helpsyou to know this, I failed the first time. And you may not tell anyone! Really? What instrument? Come. From where you are, can you determinewhat's happening on the Romulan Bridge? Options, Number One? Yes, I can recognise the inscription pattern from the firstartefact. You shouldn't remember him like this. Goodbye, Captain Okona. Thank you. I don't want to anthropomorphise anything. I seemsthat some creatures have the capacity to fill spaces you never knewwere empty. Don't you understand? The Bringloidi can help you. Energise. Captain's log, supplemental. Our away team hasbeamed down to an unusual matriarchal society where the female is asaggressively dominant as the male gender was on Earth hundreds of yearsago. Here, the female is the hunter, the soldier, larger and strongerthan the male. An arrangement considered most sensible and natural. The exocomps are siphoning power from the core. One more ship will make no difference in the here and now. Buttwenty two years ago, one ship could have stopped this war before itstarted. For what? What have you brought us here for? I may not show my feelings to my crew, but I do have them. Aye aye, Doctor. Perhaps in this case, rethinking? Elaborate, Data. Ignite the plasma. That's exactly what they were trying to do. Hold on! Yes, perhaps you're right. Seize the time, Meribor. Live now. Make now always the mostprecious time. Now will never come again. I offer the hospitality of my vessel. And at your convenience,there is a briefing on the Solari wars. If you wish, I'll have youconducted to your quarters. Close enough, however, to see we're not there. On screen. Preparation is irrelevant. Your people will beassimilated as easily as Picard has been. Your attempt at a delay willnot be successful, Number One. We will proceed to Earth, and if youattempt to intervene, we will destroy you. Number One? Mister La Forge indicated that this was not anentirely routine mission. Noted. Counsellor, do you sense anything unusual on board theEnterprise? Perhaps an alien presence that doesn'tbelong here, maybe one operating on a level of intelligence farsuperior to our own? That's typical of theta-band emissions. You have to compressthe detection band width in order to determine the fix. The sourceemission is five hundred metres east of here. And seven hundred metresbelow. Data, when sensors indicate she's alone, beam her directly totransporter room one. No, no, no! I was somewhere else. I was, it was a long timeago. There was someone talking. I was talking to someone. Beverly. Iwas talking to Beverly. Open a channel. Ensign, standby for a jump to warp two. Of course. These are frightening things that are happening. Butwe won't let anyone harm you. Counsellor, why don't you take the boy tomy quarters. Yes. Now please follow Commander Riker's instructions so ourship can get back to its normal routine. We're all right. We're going to keep on climbing. Just don'tlook down. Defector? Goodbye Mrs. Troi, and thank you. Energise, Chief O'Brien. Is there a problem? Will it accept the symbol for Masaka's temple? Agreed. But let's hope it doesn't become a defence matter. Doctor Pulaski, are you ready? So you concocted an elaborate ruse to bring me here. Why? Walker, what is going on? Oh no, I don't want that. All hands, this is the Captain. As you may know, the sunin the Delos system is undergoing large-scale magnetic field changes,producing violent, gigantic flares. Now, we shall be studying this starat close range. Even though we shall be running with full deflectors,the closeness of this event and its severity are going to createproblems. That may not be entirely true, Professor. This which we callthe holodeck uses a principle similar to another device called atransporter. In the year in which we live, humans have discovered thatenergy and matter are interchangeable. In the holodeck, energy isconverted to matter. Thus you have substance. But only here. I see what you mean. Well, thank you for the soup. Thank youfor your help. Tomorrow, will you help me send a message? May I come in? The hostages have been freed by Karnas,unharmed, and the body of Admiral Mark Jameson has been buried onMordan, at the request of his widow and by the permission of Karnas. The quest for youth, Number One. So futile. Age and wisdom have theirgraces too. What is it? You're mistaken, madam. It was a very rewarding experience. Look at these fragments. They're very nearly in perfect condition and yet they're seven hundredyears old. In a way, I wish he'd never come on board the ship. Baran wouldn't last five minutes as captain if he didn't havethat control device. Patch visual to Observation lounge. Mister La Forge, open hailing frequencies. I really wonder. Halt. I've always believed that carryingchildren on a starship is a very questionable policy. Serving on a starship means accepting certain risks, certain dangers. Did Jeremy Aster make that choice? Data is a Starfleet officer. He still has certain rights. Wesley, I may not make it. Why? No. In fact, it's amazing how little it has changed. Everythingis exactly as I remember it. The house, the hills, every tree, everybush seems untouched by the passage of time. Good. You've covered all the bases. What's your impression ofShelby? Yes. I want you to sever your connection to your mother. If you violate it, you may jeopardising your career. Starfleetdoesn't take these matters lightly, Will. I can't defend you if you gotoo far. Do you understand that? Take us out. Manoeuvring thrusters only. Discontinue. Groppler Zorn, there'll soon be no FarpointStation, if I'm right about this. Q It was fear. Fear of seeing you, losing my resolve. Fear ofstaying, losing myself. Fear that neither of these choices was right,and that, and that either would have Picard to La Forge. Status? Now that should not have happened. Captain's log, supplemental. As happened with oursister ship, the Enterprise is being to experience a series of systemfailures. So far they are random, but I fear they could be earlysymptoms of what happened to the Yamato. Do you seriously expect me to accept those terms? Energise. Agreed. Further contamination must be prevented. We were once as you are now. To study you is to understandourselves. I will not continue have that woman continuing to use this shipfor her convenience, simply because her daughter happens to be one ofmy officers. Why has everything become a something, or a whatever? Wesley, unless you leave immediately, you're going to miss theBradbury. Is everything all right? Take us back to Ohniaka Three. Yes, we are, Number One. What is your status? None at all? On screen. Steady. Now, reverse and stop! Phasers fire, torpedoes away! Fire. Fire. After you. JR I was a little surprised at the decision to put a base in forceso close to the Neutral Zone. From the same source as before? Send it through. Money. I keep forgetting the need to carry money. I mustremember not to let this happen again. Deck seventeen? Someone left this junction box open. I thought your crewwas supposed to be off the ship once the field diverters were in place. Wesley, listen to me. I have no feeling in my right leg. Myvision is blurred. I'm going to get worse, not better. I'm not going tobe able to help you. Now, you are going to have to stand up to Dirgo onyour own. Do you think we are in danger from this plague? Yes, Mister Data? It is my sworn duty to protect you. The Enterprise will remainin orbit around Rana Four as long as the two of you are alive. Of course he's innocent. But as a Starfleet Captain, I can'tallow myself the luxury of yielding to my personal feelings. Theevidence warrants a trial. I'll have to allow extradition. Commander Data, report to the main Bridge immediately. My Chief Engineer has developed a system that should nullifythat advantage. Each ship will send out an active tachyon beam to theother blockading ships. Now, in theory, any cloaked vessel thatattempts to pass between our ships must cross that beam and bedetected. It's a better choice. Lay in a course for the soliton wave. We'll deal with that when the timecomes. Will the Cardassians cooperate? We'll keep you informed of our progress. Picard out. No, Lieutenant Worf. You'll make no move against him unless Iorder it. Q Beginning braking manoeuvre. The loyalty you would so quickly dismiss does not come easilyto my people, Gul Macet. You have much to learn about us. BenjaminMaxwell earned the loyalty of those who served with him. You know, inwar, he was twice honoured with the Federation's highest citation forcourage and valour. And if he could not find a role for himself inpeace, we can pity him, but we shall not dismiss him. All right. Come down. Three pulses, from three time periods, converging at one pointin space. Data, any analysis of those bolts of light it emits? Transporter Room One, lock on to Professor Galen and transporthim directly to Sickbay. And what have you found? You are as sceptical as I am. Is it logical to ignore your owngood sense? So, there is no question that the Romulan officer is morevaluable to us alive than dead. Remarkable. Yes. Male or female? Leave me alone, please. Engage. Take over, Commander Data, I'll be in observation. If someone homed onto the subspace signals created by ourmodified signal array, could we do the same to them? Track the tetryonemissions to their universe? Are the specimens ready for transfer? Mister Crusher, set course for the original coordinates. Explain. Commander Riker, take the Enterprise and investigate theproblem. Ensign Crusher and I will proceed to Pentarus Five. The miners have sent a shuttle. We shall leave in ten minutes. Lieutenant Worf, I want Doctor Stubbs confined to his quartersuntil further notice. We should confine him to quarters. Tell me what you know about this? Oh, by all means, Commander. Governor, if I could explain this I would. Enterprise. Code fourteen. Lock on present coordinates. Twosecond delay. Mark! Well, then I hope to see you tonight. Because it's been given a name by a member of my crew doesn'tmean it's not a Borg. Because it's young doesn't mean that it'sinnocent. It is what it is, and in spite of efforts to turn it intosome kind of pet I will not alter my plans. I understand, but I also know what this crew is capable of,even if they don't. Ensign, increase power to the impulse engines. Counsellor. Counsellor, I very much appreciate your concern forme, but I can assure you it is quite misplaced. I have carefullyconsidered the implications of having a Borg on thisship. I have weighed the possible risks, and I am convinced that we aredoing the right thing. Now, I am quite comfortable with my decision. Take us in, Mister Crusher. Get rid of that damned twitch and put on the correct uniform. Mister La Forge, Doctor Brahms, congratulations. You've weanedthe baby. If this is going to work, these people will need your strength,your guidance. You were testing if you can replicate the vaccine. Admiral, what you're doing here is unethical. It's immoral. I'll fight it. On my way. Mister Worf? Let's say for the moment that may be true. What is the purposeof bringing me here? Q Make it so. As beforePICARD Mister Data, ask them to identify themselves and match ourorbit. Intercept. Warp two. Picard here. Well, let me see. Your science project involved radishes, didit not? Look, I don't regret anything that happened last night. I hopeyou don't either. Where is Q? If you have any answer to any of this? Now, please! Let me remind you he is innocent until he isproved guilty. You haven't found a compatible ribosome donor? Can we navigate around these fragments? Mister La Forge, I want Lieutenant Worf to accompany you. Getme a full report on the prospects of getting our shields back. NumberOne, Mister Data, will you join me in the conference room as soon aspossible. It's time to discuss the future of this mission, if therestill is one. Because I've decided to conduct an experiment of my own. I wantto see how you react to being imprisoned. 1+4 Commander Riker and I will stay on board, be available shouldyou need us. Are you sure it wasn't one of my thoughts? At that moment, Iwas remembering being at the helm of the Stargazer. A manoeuvre wasbeing made. We were hit. Something's burning. I can smell smoke. Canyou smell it? Is there any reason for not believing this Nagilum? Lieutenant, are all your systems functioning? I'm sure you misunderstood. Mister Data, Mister La Forge, increase to warp five. Sameheading. Come. Anything, Mister La Forge? I'll be in Sickbay. That can change. RO Computer, recognise Jean-Luc Picard, Alpha Two priority, andre-establish separation procedure immediately. We should take a look at it, Number One. Stand by with an awayteam. Expect a medical team to accompany me. Special operations on Celtris Three. Moriarty, this vessel's computer has a vast memory capacity. Then they must be from worlds outside the Federation. MisterData, how many people on the Enterprise are from non-Federationplanets? Tasha. I was just with Tasha in the shuttle. But we lost you in mid-transport. Where'veyou been? What is going on down there? Preliminary to what? Data, these are questions that mankind has been struggling withthroughout history. Your confusion is only human. Well, he's becoming a very fine officer. He works as hard asany member of the crew. Riker says his studies are on line. Mister Worf, send a message to the warbird. Inform them thattheir government will be contacted shortly about this incident. I know a way of acquiring some discreet transport. Mister Worf,set a course for Torman Five. Please don't interrupt me, Wesley. Your hypnotism revealed another form of duality? Agreed. I'm on my way, Lieutenant. You have your orders, Number One. In time there would have been full disclosure. I can only askyou to believe that. On other worlds it would not be an issue. Buthere, everything our observers reported indicated that the people ofthis world would almost certainly react negatively to our arrival. Wecould see that even surveillance might even be interpreted as an act ofaggression. I hoped that we would have found Commander Riker before youdid so the matter would not complicate our introduction. It was amistake. I am here at my own request. I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard ofthe Enterprise. Why not? There is. Paul Manheim. Fifteen years ago he went off to workon experiments relating to non-linear time. It appears he may haveachieved some measure of success. Speed warp eight. Well, I'll be too busy discussing the finer points of watermanagement with ten Bajoran bureaucrats. And they won't be carrying meon a cloud of chromal vapour. Ops. Ah, yes, indeed. My only regret is that your reunion marks Will's farewell. Can you communicate? His dependence. Beverly, look, he's seventeen years old. Yes, I entirely agree with you, Number One. It's not the time. But the time may come when we will be required to take greater risks. Iwant you to consider her plan as a fall back position. Make thenecessary preparations. This is an intolerable situation. I have no wish to harm him,but I cannot allow Mister Barclay to continue to actas the computer. I don't care how smart he is. They've declared war on our way of life. We are to beassimilated. Bridge to Commander Riker. Picard toCommander Riker, answer please. Computer, locate Commander Riker. Today, perhaps. But if there are others with the courage ofAdmiral Jarok, we may hope to see a day of peace when we can take hisletter home. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Lieutenant, would you join me in my Ready room? Klingons? I'll risk none of my crew on that unknown. Q We have both allowed this to happen. More like dying, Doctor. It enveloped us. It moved. All stations, report. I understand, Doctor. Do you have a recommendation? Then her safety must be very important to you. Give us time todetermine what is going on happened here. That way we can minimise therisks in bringing her to you. You wouldn't want to lose her because weacted too quickly. It was real. It was as real as this is. And you can't expect meto forget a lifetime spent there. Number One, will you note in our report that if the governmentof Angosia survives the night, we will offer them Federation assistancein their efforts to reprogram their veterans. Well, the circumstance of their death's quite odd. A tornadosomehow escaped the weather modification net and touched down in onlyone spot. Amanda's home. Q This is Captain. This is the Captain of the Enterpriseresponding to your signal for help. Go ahead, Commander. The same conditions won't permit a shuttleto land safely, Mister LaForge. Any suggestions? I can scarcely believe it myself, but I am so grateful for yourpresence, Admiral. If anyone in Starfleet can help us, it's you. Yes. Yes! Position report. No, please don't look on it like that. We have done everythingwe can to explain these comas. We have performed physical examinations,and neurological scans. We have conducted a ship-wide diagnostic,looking for viruses, parasites, infestations. We have investigatedevery possible cause we can imagine. We have found nothing. Nothing toexplain these comas. The only variable that we have not been able toeliminate is your presence here on this ship. Now, in the light of ouractions, we would ask you to understand my request and to agree to it. Let's begin with you, Data. In fact, the programme is continuing even now inside that cube. He's on his way, Doctor. Have you analysed the risk factor? The planets that these fragments are from are scattered acrossthe quadrant. No wonder it took the Professor so long to collect them. But why? Good, Wesley. Now Come. You're telling me this is another computer glitch? Doctor, now that Wesley's safe, go to Sickbay at once. Without warp capacity, we're just a floating target. Temba? What does that mean? Fire? Does Temba mean fire? Admiral, the Indian Councils is adamant. They refuse to leave Dorvan Five. Mister Data, you may continue the diagnostic of the transportersystems at another time. Take a shuttlecraft and two more engineersdown to the Romulan ship. Get off my ship. Q Counsellor Troi just had a very disturbing hallucination. Welcome you in peace to the Enterprise, DaiMon Bok. May we turn on the viewer? I hope you are wrong, Ambassador. I'm sorry, Data. Begin the briefing. On screen. I'm going to check the status of the warp core. Thank you. Which creates a very difficult problem for theEnterprise. Our treaty requires us to protect Haven, and Federationpolicy requires that we assist life forms in need, which must includethe Tarellians. I'll want you to help me find some answers. Thank you. However, there will be ample time for your second assignment, voluntaryof course. The pre-joining announcement of Counsellor Deanna Troi It's not happening. It's not enough. I convinced them I was a smuggler, and that my name was Galen. I offered to help them appraise the artefacts that they had stolen. Will, these aren't common thieves. They are stealing Romulan artefactsfrom archaeological sites throughout this sector. Baran has meanalysing each one if them for a particular particle signature. Will,they are looking for a specific artefact. We must assume that there is a threat, if not to us then to19th century Earth. We have to determine what that threat may be. Mister La Forge, we have to find some way to communicate with theselife forms. Can you help her? Which no doubt you sold for a very impressive profit. So, were you getting tired of my company? Not at all. I'm here studying the intricacies of Bajoranaqueduct management. I would welcome an interruption. Please, sit down. Commander Data will meet you there. Are they attacking anything other than nitrium alloy? Report. Yes, it's the study of fossil records at the microscopic level. I read your papers on the subject, but that was years ago. It seemed asthough the work had stopped. What has happened to bring you to that conclusion? That's quitea big jump. They'll have to learn to live with it. Begin long range scans of the Romulan border. Two, one That's good. Say when. Governor, I assure you Yes. Briam has supervised a reproduction of the ancient Temple ofAkadar on our holodeck. I told you he was the best. I'd like to hear about this, NumberOne, later. Right now I have to work something out with Mister Data. Lower shields. I've acquired an interest over the years. Yes, I know that, Data, but what could itbe? Like you. Different in appearance, yes. But we are both livingbeings. We are born, we grow, we live and we die. In all the ways thatmatter, we are alike. Standard orbit, Mister La Forge. I see. What do you intend to tell them? Those devices are part of a system located down here. Anotherone is about to be released. Watch yourselves. Tea, Earl Grey, hot. Surely Sakkath cannot be influenced by emotion? It's a difficult choice. You must do what you think best, Data. But whatever decision you make, we will support it. Why? What is it? But according to the legend, the Stone was destroyed by thegods when the Vulcan people found the way to peace. Let's have a look. Mister Data? Data, can you hear me? Data, respond. Picard to Commander Data. Report. Then you will have to find evidence some way other than anautopsy. Are you putting mankind on trial again? Q Data attacked Counsellor Troi because he saw a mouth on hershoulder. And in that same area that we first saw one of the organisms. Do not attack again! We are on a peacefulmission. Give your identity. You force us to defend ourselves. Phasersfull up. Arm torpedoes. Why aren't the shields at full power? I'm going to contact Starfleet Command. On screen. Tasha? No. I will present our regrets to the Legarans personally. Itis vital that they understand our reasons for cancelling thesenegotiations. Mister Data estimated time to intercept with the Phoenix. I see. Indeed we do. Mister Data, set course for the Neutral Zone. Warp six. If your theory is accurate, Doctor, what would happen if wewere to inflict pain on the others? If it were possible, what would you say? Officer, and a young woman ofremarkable courage If we don't regain control, then no oneelse must have it either. Now, this is the one decision involving theoperation of this vessel which requires you and I to be in totalagreement. Good. Data, I want you and Geordi to return for more carefulinspection. What do you mean? I hope I'm not intruding. Between intelligent species of good will What's the situation? Mister Worf, request granted. I can't say. I'll keep you updated. Will you inform DoctorCrusher and Lieutenant La Forge of our delay? How will you gain access? Mister Remmick, young men sometimes make rash choices. Which iswhy Mister Kurland will receive a strong refresher specifically indiscipline It's not necessary, Mister Data. Meeting adjourned. Come in, Number One. Commander Shelby was just telling me ofyour concerns about her plan. All right, Mister La Forge, I want you to access thetransformation programme. And when you're ready, input the symbol. We would require no special attention. Specify. Hello, D'Tan. Doctor, I suggest that you return to your quarters. Ihat. Ambassador, have a safe trip home. The Cardassians have destroyed the Bajoran ship, Admiral. Go on. Well, you're new on the Enterprise. You'll have to learn toexpect the unexpected. No, you need help. Advise Starfleet of our status, Mister Data. When AdmiralKennelly calls, I'll speak to him in my Ready room. And what do I have to offer Orta that might persuade him tocooperate? Picard to La Forge. We have an environmental system malfunctionon the Bridge. Acknowledge. I beg your pardon? Doesn't he deserve to become more than that? His true heritageis human, Endar. We agreed you would never trouble my ship again! Q No longer? All right. I'll try. But I want you to know this is mutiny. Now, Number One, look at that control panel. Now, the yellow controlpad, hit that once. Now the one below it, hit twice. Now that shouldrelease the panel underneath. Come cheer up my lads, 'Tis to glory we steer. To findsomething new in this wonderful year. To honour we call you as free menand brave. For who are so free as the sons of the waves? Hearts of Oakare our ships, Jolly tars are our men. We always are ready. Steady,boys, steady. We'll fight and we'll conquer again and again. It doesn't appear to be, Data. I want all departments prepared for a warpsix trip into the Neutral Zone as soon as the away team completes itsmission. Therefore you see this armed raid as the only option. Nothing. Go on. I am, Doctor. Number One. Do you have the exact location? It was cold and dark because I was outdoors at night. I was ina narrow place. I was walking through an alley. Doesn't it? Our very presence may have damaged, even destroyed,their way of life. Whether or not we agree with that way of life orwhether they're human or not is irrelevant, Number One. We areresponsible. I'm not taking you anywhere. Captain's log, stardate 41602.1. The shuttlecrafthas been destroyed to prevent any possibility of Armus leaving theplanet. Vagra Two will be declared off limits. But the damage has beendone. One of the saddest duties I've ever had to perform is now aheadof me. On screen. I want you to find some way to undo what he has done so that wecan regain control of this ship. Exactly. But you haven't told us the whole story. How it ended. The partabout Rishon. What's this? Come. Crewman? What is going on? Q Thank you, Data. But what would the Breen be doing inside theBlack Cluster? The boy described a boarding party with helmets andphaser rifles. That woman. She would. It's an excellent one if you'll just hurry up. There's always risk, Doctor. Proceed with the examination, butI shall require positive proof that these children are harmless beforeI place any of my crew in jeopardy. Mister La Forge, report. All right. Let's bring the away team back. Set the transporterto maximum decontamination, and then full examination and observationwhen they're here. I'm all right. I don't suppose you have. Fire at will. Continue rotating shield frequency. You seem to like rock climbing. The holodeck can create somevery challenging climbs. We could go down together and I could show youhow to use theprogramme. What? Agreed. Ensign, bring us about. Take us out of the nebula. And respects. Lieutenant Yar. Very well. Begin as soon as you're ready. I really don't think that will be necessary, Mister Worf. Risahas a reputation of being a most peaceful planet. Then I would recommend that we ask both sides if they wouldagree to meet in the city of Darthen. K'adlo. I have been pleased to offer occasional assistance tothe Klingon people in the past. Geordi, what's happening to you? And Cor Caroli Five. The metamorph. Kamala. I've spent quite a lot of time with herthe past few days, and you're right about several things, but, Beverly,her entire existence has been orchestrated for this moment and sheintends to go through with it to help her people end the war. Understood. Picard here. Our ship has been commandeered by a force of unknown size andintent. We're here alone. We must assume the worst. Number One. Eighteen of our people have died. Please, tell usthis is one of your illusions. Q Look at this. Certainly. On screen. Not until we have someplace to go. Doctor Pulaski, how is Lieutenant Worf? A distortion wave. On a count of three. Stand by on phasers. One, set warp tonine. Two, divert shield power to the main engines. Three. Put it on screen. Yes, Doctor? Mister Worf, I have my orders. I'm sure you understand that. Now Doctor, this deflector wasn't set properly. It must be positionedso that the emitter array blocks the entire passageway, or it'suseless. There is no delay. It is the time I have chosen. A week. They've prescribed peridaxon. Every intelligence report that I get from Starfleet suggeststhat the Maquis are eager to expand their strikes, they want toescalate their activities. Now you're telling me this isn't true? RO This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the You value it? Thank you, Mister Data. Counsellor, stay with them in Jeremy's quarters. You can tell him yourself, in person. Bringthat ship back at once. Doctor Crusher, please report to the Bridge. What do we know about them, Data? Do you have any theories? Wake him. They're everywhere. They're laughing at me. Why are theylaughing? In my Ready room. Computer, delay time? Yes. Acceptable risks, justified risks, but I can't acceptthis. It's unjustified. It's unfair. He has rights. Gul Macet, you see we are doing everything in our power toreach the Phoenix. That doesn't suggest a Romulan connection? Understanding has made friends of many different people. We'vehad a good beginning, Lutan. Mister Worf, please be sure to send a complete record of ourfindings to both vessels and to the High Council. Of course you will. We've a long voyage ahead of us. Captain Garrett, damage report. Mister Data, we must hurry or we'll missCommander Riker's party. There have been nine hundred and forty seven knownarchaeological excavations conducted on the planet's surface. Of those,some seventy four are generally believed to have revealed findings ofmajor importance. The boy? Because kidnapping is an immoral assault. The rights of otherraces must be respected. 4 Hello. Any. My apologies for saying that you babbled. Data! What is going on here, Number One? Did yougive him permission to contact me? That's right. You said there were only two of you left. What happened to the rest of the crew? Aaron! Unfortunately, Mister Data, your hypotheses rarely are. Is it emitting any signals, Lieutenant? There never was a ransom. All he was ever interested in wasvengeance. It's been suggested that Spock might have defected. Strange. Received and acknowledged, sir. Picard out. Whatever it takes. What was that? Any sign of the Romulans? I beg your pardon? Yes, perhaps it is. Picard to Lieutenant Worf. Type R? Sur le pont d'Avignon, on y danseJELLICO Reinitialise them on my authorisation. The Enterprise will escort a Bajoran Antares class carrier tothe Valo Three camp at oh five hundred hours. Orta and his people willbe aboard. What is going on here? Kahlest, would they recognise you? Would they know who yourare? What kind of chance? Your name is Marissa. Is that right? Well, Marissa, I'm goingto need a first officer to help me. You're the oldest and so that makesyou my Number One. Can you tell me what manoeuvre this is? A lot. Even in orbital space it'll get below minus two hundreddegrees. No. I'm bound by the rules of the United Federation of Planets,which order me not to interfere with other worlds, other cultures. If Iwere to tell them any of this, I would violate that Prime Directive. It's time for you return to the ship, Mister La Forge. MisterO'Brien, stand by to transport. On my mark, fourminutes. In for a penny, in for a pound, is that what you're saying,Mister Data? Inhibited, I suppose. But then, I'm not Wesley. And if you areconcerned about him, I see no evidence that there is a problem. Don't get out of character, Commander. Yes, Doctor? Negative. Only if you let me see my people on the shuttle first. I mustsee them. Mister O'Brien, your former Commander, a Federation Captain, isabout to place me in the position of firing on his ship. I need yourknowledge of the man. How he thinks, what he's capable of doing. Take him to Sickbay. Let me know the instant he's awake. Anything new on that that thing out there? You see, Admiral, there are some very disturbing historicalparallels here. Once more, they're being asked to leave their homesbecause of a political decision that has been taken by a distantgovernment. Counsellor, did you draw any other conclusions from yourexperiences on the holodeck? Anything that would help us to understandthis situation? No, you're not confused, Data. You're sensing the truth. Yourethical programmeis fighting the negative emotions that Lore is sending you. You're saying I should just sit down, shut up and wait. Agreed. So let's continue on course. Somewhere out theresomething will happen. A decision will be made during the course ofwhich, I will be separated from the Enterprise. At the time, thedecision will seem to be correct, but it won't be. We have toanticipate and not make, not make the same mistake once. Something iswaiting for us out there. Let's try and determine what it is, asquickly as possible. There's one in the Fleet museum, but then of course, this isyour Enterprise? Stay sharp everyone. Corey, don't play him. Doctor. Welcome to the Bridge. Please, sit down. How isCounsellor Troi? Did she have a good night? Endar's entire claim on Jono is based on Talarian custom he'dhave a hard time backing away from it now. The only question I have, Admiral, is why you thought itnecessary to be young to negotiate the release of the hostages. Evenwilling to put your life at risk for it. I'll be on the Bridge,Admiral, if you want to talk further. Will, I'm leaving it up to you to make sure that all sciencedepartments have an equal chance of completing their research. Are you saying that it worked? We collapsed the anomaly? Q And mine, sir. Doctor Pulaski. I want you to go through them. I think so, Mister Data. Beverly. Yes, Lieutenant. Is there a problem? But surely, Captain, you have regulations to take care of suchan eventuality. We see it too, Number One. One of the finest officers that I have ever served with. Well played, Counsellor. May I have a word with you for justa moment? Counter-punchers. Thank you, Counsellor. That's quite valuable. I read that, too. Lieutenant Yar, what do your sensors show? Forgive this tardiness. Ship's business. Minister Campio,Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. Welcome aboard. Considering the situation you have put us in, I don't thinkit's wise to leave you alone with those people. Mister Worf willaccompany you. What is it, Number One? You don't know, Robert. You don't know. They took everything Iwas. They used me to kill and to destroy, and I couldn't stop them. Ishould have been able to stop them! I tried. I tried so hard, but Iwasn't strong enough. I wasn't good enough. I should have been able tostop them. I should! I should! Less than five hours. Which is why I have called you. In a sense. But who knows? Our reality may be very much liketheirs. All this might be just be an elaborate simulationrunning inside a little device sitting on someone's table. Well, wehave a newborn star to study. Mister Barclay, you will keep that safe? Did I find her? Now, Mrs. Carmichael Right there. Then you have the advantage. Is this Bok? Shuttle nine, stand by. You don't care for the Cardassians? I have two choices. Either way, one version of history oranother will wend its way forward. The history you know or another one. Now who is to say which is better? What I do know is here, today, oneway, millions of lives could be saved. Nowisn't that incentive enough? Where is she? Your preparations made the negotiations simple, Ambassador, andKamala was able to guide me through the rituals. Soon, my friend. For the moment, I have other duties. Wesley! But they do have an interest in driving the Federation and theEmpire apart. Our alliance is the only thing that has kept them incheck. Feels like that right now. Good. Thank you. What have you found? I'm the captain of a Federation starship. Viewer on. Gentlemen, communicating like this is verydistracting. I suggest that we beam you up to the Enterprise and weresolve this face to face. Governor, exactly what do you think the Federation has done? Yes, I have, Number One. I've decided I'm going for a walk. I remember. There were no survivors. Your advice, Counsellor. There's only one planet in the Kurlan system capable ofsupporting life. Loren Three. Do you have any idea why he might have disappeared like this? I'm not certain. Energise. Doctor, is it possible for a ship to survive in there? Doctor. I'm sorry about your loss but we need your help now. Think, Tallera. Two thousand years ago your people were beingconsumed by war. But when peace came to Vulcan, the resonator becameuseless. That's why it was dismantled. And miss all this? I haven't seen such a complex operationsince the Academy lab final in exochemistry. I've diverted the reserve power to thefamily decks. They'll last longest. Is there anything else we can do,Doctor? Where's Wesley? On main viewer. Doctor Crusher. Q, what have you done? Q It is no longer a matter of how wrong Datawas, or why he did it. The dilemma exists. We have to discuss theoptions. And please talk freely. Wesley, it's my fault that you're here. I shouldn't have askedyou. I was just trying to rescue you. Can we tractor them out? Bringing it up here was the right thing todo, Number One. We were just saying, Data, that if your duplicatefunctions, it might answer a lot of questions. I realise how unusual this must seem. My appearance is theresult of an accident, involving myself and three other crew members,the effects of which Doctor Crusher is currently working to remedy. Iassure you I am Captain Picard. It's Ressikan. Beverly, how dangerous would another ridethrough the inverter be to us? Very well. Let me know when you finished your sweep. Full impulse. Rotate heading in five degree increments. Mister Worf. Prepare to launch a classfour probe to study the energy field. JR Target their weapons array only. We need to stabilise this situation. Playfor time. I suggest we move the ship as they've asked. Agreed? Set anew heading, but take us there as slowly as you can. Ten Forward, weare moving the ship as you requested. On screen. My medical team suggests there may be alternative treatment. Thank you. Fire. Have you made any progress, Doctor? Indeed. It would put the Federation in a very difficultposition. Or there is another possibility, Counsellor. This could benothing more than simple You have forty eight hours, because at forty eight plus six wehave an appointment at Pelleus Five we must keep. The person who has made the threat is under the impression thatyou are my son. Yes, Data, that is a natural assumption. Engineering? Agreed. Perhaps you would agree to a more productiverelationship? I wanted someone who would stand up to me. Someone who was moreconcerned with the safety of the ship and accomplishing the missionthan with how something looked on his record. To me, that's one of themarks of a good officer. Intense magnetic fields have a disruptiveeffect on electrical systems. Therefore we can expect communicationsinterruptions, as well as potential temporary loss of other systems. Asa precaution, we are now going to Yellow Alert. Stay sharp, everyone. Thank you. Are you comfortable? The knowledge and experience of the humanPicard is part of us now. It has prepared us for all possible coursesof action. Your resistance is hopeless, Number One. First Officer's log, stardate 44001.4. The Borgship has resumed its course toward Earth. We are unable to pursuepending repairs to the Enterprise. Data. I want to see Data. No. It's several kilometres to find another way around thatridge. The border is just two kilometres east of here. There's aforcefield protecting it, but we can find some way to deal with thatwhen we get there. Come on. But I also can't ignore that we have greatly outclassed theonly enemy vessel we've encountered. And that everysingle possible shred of information which might shed some light onthis situation has been conveniently eliminated. I feel as though I'vebeen handed a weapon, sent into a room and told to shoot a stranger. Well, I need some moral context to justify that action, and I don'thave it. I'm not content simply to obey orders. I need to know thatwhat I am doing is right. Is there any explanation why they would make such a blatantlyaggressive move? I'm not sure. A hearing, certainly. Probably a court martial. RO Go on with your briefing, Mister Data. So this is affecting the entire crew. If someone were to challenge him, the rest of the crew wouldfollow. Meeting adjourned, then. But if you're right, someone else may be involved. He is different, yes. But that does not make him expendable, orany less significant. No being is so important that he can usurp therights of another. Now set him free! Fog. What? DaiMon, if we assigned an Engineering team to assist you withyour repair efforts, would that give you time to retrieve your logs? I'm going to get help. We have to get you out of here. I will tell you again. Data is a valued member of my crew. Heis an outstanding Bridge officer. Because of the seriousness of your claim, I'm willing to listento your case. But let there be no mistake. Our priority here is therecovery of the Fleming. Now I expect you to help us restore ourengines and deactivate all of the remaining probes in the Corridor. Ifyou do not, you will both be taken to the brig and from there to thenearest Starbase, where you will answer charges for what you have done. Do it. It's never easy to leave one's home, the safe and the familiar. But there are times when the greater good demands that certainsacrifices are made. I'm sure that was something that your grandfatherunderstood. And who is this Ardra? Thank you. I'm told that your father is also dead. We seem to be pretty well sealed in, Doctor. Hey, hey, Doctor. Stay awake. Come on. There's a lot of blood. What do I do next? Doctor. Hold your ground, Mister Data. When you made those noises, the workmen reacted in pain. I think it would be better if you stayed on board theEnterprise until we have resolved this situation with Bok. Please respond, Ten Forward. Are there any members of mycrew who require medical assistance? You are no one's servant, Liko. I neither desire your obediencenor your worship. What the devil am I doing here? Do we have an onboard communications system? No, Worf! All of you. Don't respond. Don't provoke themfurther. Keep those weapons down unless you wish to be killed. No, I'm fine. I don't need rest. Are you saying you want to back out of this mission? RO Where is the information being sent now? Thank you. Which suggests that the crew had been in cryogenic sleep forthat long journey. Peace envoy, in a stolen Vulcan ship. It's Earth. It's home. Do I need another reason? Resign? Thank you for the confirmation, Doctor. But now, except forRiker, I would like you all to return to your stations. Is that clear? And whom did you inform? Understood. Picard out. I put it to you all. I think we shall end up with a fine crew,if we avoid temptation. So, Number One, let's go to our next job. Beverly, what do you hope to accomplish? Oh, yes. I visited there twelve years ago, while commanding theStargazer. Mister Worf acknowledge. Can you hear me, Mister Worf? Very well. Yes, indeed. It's good to see you again, Admiral. Clearly this was much more than an empathic echo. It seems thatyou were actually seeing something that happened in the control roomeight years ago. Yes, of course. Excuse me, gentlemen. All right. Why did I invite you here? Take us to visual range, Ensign. Good evening, Mister Data. Ready for San Francisco, Mister Whalen? Beam up the away team immediately. Mister Data, our sensors have been rendered ineffective by thefield distortion. I want your analysis. Mister Worf, fire phasers,maximum intensity, limited spectrum. Zero zero one mark zero four five. This is Doctor Katherine Pulaski. We will handle the formalintroduction later. Counsellor Deanna Troi is pregnant. She is going tohave a baby. On screen, Mister Worf. Governor. Go ahead, Mister Orton. Yes, what place are you trying to reach? Is that what made the Aldeans sterile? Go ahead. Well, Mister Data? What do you think? It's not going to work, Nagilum. We'll only tell that when we see his behaviour. I am trying to establish a new relationship with the Admiral. There has been a certain amount of tension between us in the past. I'm willing to wager that you trounced your brothers duringthose debates. Well, Data, as you can see, we're back where it all started. I can imagine. Doctor Crusher told me that there were possiblydozens of personalities inside you. You have manipulated the circumstances with the skill of aRomulan. My decision will be announced at high sun tomorrow. Excellenttea. Good day, ladies. You wanted to see me, Doctor? All right. Link established. Counsellor. I hope not, Number One. Mister La Forge, prepare to take us outof orbit. Set course for Isis Three. You see, the end is closer than you like to think. Bridge, release security forcefield eight B. Hello, Jeremy. Howare you? Are you frightened? Steady. Analysis of the nebula cloud, Mister Data. I was not amused. Well, by this time tomorrow we could be back on the Enterpriseand you can plant yourself in front of a replicator with a knife andfork. Report, Mister Data. Perhaps we can help it in some way. Can you ask it to returnwith us to Federation space? At least persuade it to leave the vicinityof Beta Stromgren, before the star explodes? I know the story from Vulcan mythology. Then, you have the advantage. Something interesting? Human. We're in orbit around Vandor now. You're blocking the suns. Of course. JR Acknowledged. Counsellor? La Forge, set in warp one point five. Mister La Forge, how are you coming with that comm. link? The Academy. It is unlikely you are prepared to discussterms. It is more likely that this is an attempt at deception. Okay, Bev. How will these resonators destroy the crystals? There is an epidemic of violent incidents aboard theEnterprise. As we speak, the situation is worsening. Glad the Academy's still teaches the strategies of Sun Tzu. This delay had better prove out, LaForge. My Aunt Adele cured a lot of sleeplessnights with this steamed milk. Good. I want you to flood them with anestazine. Can you remove it? You did what? I walked. For hours. This is my First Officer, Commander William Riker. LieutenantCommander Data. This is Jenice Manheim. But with the disappearance of Commander Riker, wouldn't it beprudent That word demand has a tone of finality. I met him once. What I know of him comes from history books,and of course my mind meld with his father. Extraordinary. Now I'm beginning to understand him. Initiate the transformation. You must convince me. If I had irrefutable evidence? But youdid not bring irrefutable evidence. You brought no evidence at all. Now, here, you are not the man you claimed to be. Admiral, yourcredibility is stretched beyond belief. A Romulan defector is almost acontradiction in terms. But Admiral Jarok crossing the lines? Then I'll take a shuttlecraft and retrieve it. Mister Data,you're with me. What's going on, Q? What's your real purpose here? Q Temba, his arms open. Gentlemen, gentlemen, we're running out of time. Mister Worf? Counsellor, could I speak with you in my Ready room? You havethe Bridge, Number One. The ship's computers sense a localised increase A metamorph? Yes, that's it. Worf. Yes, that's the answer. Worf will help us. Is there a possibility the wound could be self-inflicted? No. We are merely visiting here. Premier. Hey, I'm your cha'DIch. Several? Violate the Prime Directive? Why so slow? Does Sarek have any idea why Spock might have left? Do you suspect that her death poses some kind of threat to theEnterprise? We had a lot to celebrate. Our team wasn't supposed to win. Wewere very proud of them. The Academy? Obviously it works very rapidly, but how does it work? Ambassador Sarek, Perrin, on behalf of the entire crew,welcome. Yes, of course. But his judgment Beverly. Analysis. I suggest that we build atmospheric condensers which couldextract water from the air. Mister La Forge, report. Why here? To the family that's irrelevant. From this point, no station aboard, repeat no station, for anyreason will make use of transmitted signals or intercom. We'll try andtake them by surprise. Let's see what this galaxy class starship cando. Lieutenant, inform engine room to prepare for maximumacceleration. That's true, and he will stand for his crimes. Ready, but hold on ready. Open hailing frequencies. Then how can he turn his back on them so easily? How can heendorse reunification when it's considered subversive? 1 Your friends. There was someone called Tom Norris? Is the whole ship deaf?! Sit down over there, young man. Temporarily. Furthermore, pursuant to subsection D three, I name theGrisellas to arbitrate. There's one now. Sakkath knows. Mister La Forge, what's going on? We've lost primary helm control on the Bridge. At last. Did you read that book I gave you? Indeed, we do get an incomplete picture, which is why we alsodo surface reconnaissance. In a few weeks. We have some surveying to do in sector two onethree oh five. RO What you're suggesting I've spoken to Fleet Admiral Shanthi. There will be a fullinquiry once we reach Starbase two four seven, and that will probablylead to a general court martial of Admiral Pressman and several othersat Starfleet Intelligence. Your involvement in this affair is going tobe thoroughly investigated, Will. There'll be some hard questions foryou to answer. Commander, we have recovered one of your survivors. I'm faced with a dilemma. There is a planet beneath us which isslowly turning to ice, and unless we do something about it, I'm toldthat in a matter of weeks thousands, maybe tens of thousands, will die. They did agree a bit easily. Well, in one hour we shall knowwhy. Disengage all engines. Yes, I think it does. It matters to me. Patterson, you're an officer. You have to obey orders. Mister Data, have you secured all of the shuttle debris? Romas, are you and T'Jon carrying this plague? Bridge. Belay that. Computer, estimated arrival at Pegos Minor.  My name is Kamin? You had a hand in helping me get out of this. Q I hope I'm that frail when I'm two hundred and two years old. But his aides did seem to be a little overprotective, didn't they? What do we know about this weapon? Not yet. Stop firing! That was just part of my memory. You had no claim to that vessel. It was ours to destroy. Mister Worf, use whatever means to neutralise the intruder. Life form reading? Explain. What was it that didn't you mean to do, Timothy? Well, you've never known fear, Data. But as an acute observerof behaviour, you should be able to approximate it. Try. Mister Data, set course for Loren Three, maximum warp. Ready and willing. Able to serve. What would you do? Would youstart as an ordinary crewman? What task is too menial for an entity? Q It's an old folk melody. How long do you need? You come in search of what humanity is! Q How long will it be? Weapons status? I wouldn't go that far. On screen. They don't like cold, eh? Make it so. It would seem you've actually improved upon yourself, Data. We are here together to honour our friendand comrade, Lieutenant Natasha Yar. Coming to terms with the loss of acolleague is perhaps the most difficult tasks we must face in the workwe have chosen to pursue. We will all find time to grieve for her inthe days that are ahead, but for now she has asked that we celebrateher life with this. Set a course for a return to Starbase one three threeimmediately. But the Prytt are not. They are reclusive to the point ofxenophobia. There's no logic in this at all. Whether they succeed or not,the Enterprise-C will be destroyed. We will proceed according to the traditions and the precedentsset down in Klingon law. What have you learned? Understood. And the mission? It could be that whatever caused this situation also affectedData. And it could be that he's telling the truth and that this is alljust a minor mystery. Mister Data? Doctor, Commander, make it so. Meanwhile, we will maintain ourpresent course. If there is something wrong with Data, wedon't want him to be aware of our suspicions. Explain. You know, it wasn't easy to get this record. I had to pull inquite a few favours at Starfleet just to get a look at it. It seemsthat it was classified by Starfleet Intelligence. So, not only was thePegasus carrying sensitive equipment whichmust be allowed to fall into Romulan hands, not only was there amysterious explosion which seemed to destroy the ship but didn't, butit seems there was a mutiny on board. Now, I've read the officialreport of the inquiry on that mutiny, but I want to know your versionof what happened. If you wish, I can see that they're informed. Launch probe. Sovereign. Brull! Anthwara believes that I am responsible for the crimes of oneof my ancestors against his people. The medical records are our next priority. And be patient. Mister Kolrami, you have been nothing but denigrating andabusive of Commander Riker since coming aboard this ship. Now I wouldlike some explanation. Go ahead. You're certain. P2 You know him? On screen. Proceed. Any luck? Not now, Doctor. Please. Come. Phaser. A sphere. Bok used it. Anna. Anna! Anna, where are you going? Any activity at the meeting site? Where are myweapons? I know. Earl Grey? An enormous amount of data is being received and stored in themain computer. We'll inform the medical personnel on thoseplanets that we have discovered the true nature of the comas. I'm surethey'll appreciate knowing what Make it so. Computer, where is Jason Vigo? That takes care of the practical, but there's more to growingup than that. It's my belief, Number One, that you're best qualified tosupervise that. Are you willing to serve? I see no reason to continue. Attention on deck. You had the full tour, I trust? Engineering. Number One, an update, please. If your lock on the away team wavers in the slightest, beamthem back immediately. What went wrong, Mister La Forge? Is that an order, Doctor? None? In the last three hundred years of Mizarian history, yourplanet has been conquered six times! Freeze programme. Run Riker programme two, time code, sixteenone zero. Initiate warp shell! Still, there was a considerable loss of life. Hail the Jovis. I want to speak with Kivas Fajo. Oh, yes. His name is Flaherty. Recognise it? The forward viewscreen is controlled from the ops positionthere That is not satisfactory. You won't mind if I don't take your word for it? Jared, withyour permission, I'd like Mister Data will review these scrollsthoroughly. Stand by, Number One. Assuming that they'restill together, how far could they have travelled in three hours? Go ahead, Doctor. Counsellor? And Commander Riker? Leaving my career, the Enterprise? Mister Crusher, new coordinates. Lay in a course for Lya Four. Perhaps it was filtered out by the transporter when they werebeamed aboard? I just received a message from Admiral Nsomeka. She expects youto report in two weeks. A position has opened up in this year's class. Thank you. Initiate recovery procedures. Continue repairs. Plota course for the nearest starbase. Captain's log, supplemental. With the transporter repaired and my crewsafely back aboard, we have officially ended our first Starfleet battlesimulation. Yes, Data. We'll go see Data. You shouldn't remember him like this He has brought a knife with him, a knife is was supposed to bestained with the blood of Kahless. Ensign Rager, put us into synchronous orbit above thatposition. You see, the Ansata separatists have been trying forgenerations to freed themselves from the rule of the eastern continent. If they can get the government just to acknowledge their demands, thenkidnapping your mother will have served its purpose. I think that maybe what they're after, but it may not. Frankly, Wesley, I don't care. My only concern is to get your mother back. Very shortly, we shall beleaving to have a meeting with the authorities. Transporter Room! Then perhaps you can explain why his craft is threatening toattack us unless I give him custody of you. I suppose, I suppose it must be. I was hoping for more. Picard to Captain Riker. The Romulan Ambassador is readyto transport over from the Decius. My name is Mot. I'm the barber. Then perhaps we'll meet again. But next time, it will be outhere, among the stars. You Recognise the old bag of tricks? What about this one? Come back, Ardra, if you can. No? Fine, allow me I'm convinced the damage will be irreparable if they'reseparated. Your staff is all well, I presume, Director? Why? Because Lore tells you so? Patch me into the navigational control of the runabout. A fairly routine manoeuvre but you handledit quite well. Is Commander Riker alive? I'm sure. Will he leave when he sees there's no other choice? I look forward to it. But you're looking at me. Welcome back. Counsellor. Geordi, Data, reconfigure thecomputer and the records. Number One, I want you to oversee the rest ofthe ship. And this time, let's get it right. Eline? Mister Worf, your personal affairs are strictly your ownconcern until they interfere with the operation of this ship. You havenow crossed that line. As your Captain, I want to know exactly what isgoing on. What is it, Doctor? Captain Garrett. Not in real life. Remember, everything that's going on downthere is taken from what Colonel Richey calls a second-rate novel. There cannot be many non-Camorites among them. Scan for humanlife signs. With respect, Admiral, I would point out no one else has heardor considered Karnas's demands. The Federation might view themdifferently if they knew what they were. The Traveller moved through time using the power of his mind. Doctor Crusher, this is the Captain. If the anomaly appeared there in the past, then it might behere too and we have to find out. Very well. Ensign, as soon as Mister Data is finished takeus to Ligos at warp eight. Chancellor. Q, your game was for my benefit. She is innocent in all ofthis. Q A few more hours. Why? Come. Then why are you compelled to disobey my orders? How? Duringthe missing day, were you contacted by Starfleet? Did they order you toconceal the truth from us? A train? I'm saying, if there is sufficient cause to warrant a trial, Iwill release my officer into your custody. I see. Well, I'd better let you finish up so you can get offthe ship. Geordi, I want you to continue to scan the archive. See if youcan find some way to access it. And in the meantime, I'll see what Ican learn from these people inside Data. Any communication, Number One? Yes? Could your Visor device have malfunctioned? We have to! Everything depends on it! We can't leave now! Please, listen to me! Madeline. Good to see you again. I want to see my people in the shuttle. Is that possible? Are you locked on to that transmission? Data. At ease, Cadet. Well done, Mister Data. Your information is incorrect. We have no plans to enter intoany One moment, Captain. We've also discovered a human among yourcrew. Captain to CMO. Yes, but isn't the real point, can you do it again? Can you getus home? It's over, Sovak. I'll take care. Find out what you can, then join me, in forceif necessary. Energise. Is it so important that you to win one last argument? As are we, Mister La Forge. Picard to Riker. Wait. Greetings from the United Federation of Planets. I am CaptainJean Luc Picard, of the Enterprise. This is Counsellor Troi. Lieutenant Worf. Are they willing to leave? A single Data, and forgive me, Commander, is a curiosity. Awonder, even. But thousands of Datas. Isn't that becoming a race? Andwon't we be judged by how we treat that race? Now, tell me, Commander,what is Data? No, there's no time for that! Starfleet will be here anyminute. The shield that protected your world in one way is weakening itin another. It is the radiation of your own sun that is destroying you. But whatever circumstances you encountered, why didn't younotify Starfleet? I'm sorry, I didn't know. RO Granted. Welcome. There are no local authorities. The government is splintered. It seems that there are various factions vying for power. They'redesperate for weapons or technology of any kind. Apparently, some ofthe factions have resorted to torture to gather their information. Well, a Starfleet research team would be a prime target. Mister Worf, override the shuttle's computer. Return it to theshuttlebay. Go ahead, Mister Data. Would it be inappropriate to ask what happened between you andSpock? Jared, you've described quite thoroughlythe history of your people before and after Ardra's first visit. But Iam a little unclear about the change itself. Did Ardra simply snap herfingers and transform the planet into this paradise? You may call me whatever you wish. And is that why they can't conceive? Will that plug the hole? Report. RO Counsellor, will you get those people undercontrol. We cannot afford this continuing distraction. Oh, no, there's something's wrong here. Now, Beverly, this ismore than just an obsessive love affair that has got out of hand. Tellme, why is it that no one has seen this Ronin except you? And I found these pieces in the tertiarylevel of the dig. They're typical of second century Marlonian cookware. Look at those markings. They're very similar to early Taguan designs,but the patterns are more intricate, they're much closer to Buranianthan Taguan. Thank you, Chief. Lieutenant Worf, to transporter room three. Scan for survivors. Counsellor? Transporter room, do you have a fix on the away team? Half impulse. Doctor, are you all right? I wasn't aware that he had. Yes. Lieutenant Yar, have the Ornarans brought in. No, wait, Idon't want them to have access to the Bridge. We will contact you in afew minutes. I will continue this in the guestquarters. Commander, Doctor. Sir, our concern is with the threat your vessel poses to theplanet below. If you're still carrying the infection which destroyedyour world I am much relieved, sir. Perhaps it's just that I'm getting older. Doctor, I want you back aboard this ship. We'll beam you up insuspended animation like the boy. That will give us more time. Excellent. Mister McDowell, will you set course for GaradiusFour and engage at Does the rift pose any danger to the Fleming? Jean-Luc Picard. 2 That is not true. I promise. Lieutenant, take us out of orbit. I'm sorry. You have the Bridge, Number One. Mister Worf. Good. Because I'm delighted you did. But, perhaps we shouldcall it a night. 2 I do have some questions for you though. RIKER What will you do now? We can't just stay here while our ship is beingcommandeered. JR I am Locutus of Borg. You will respond to my questions. This isgoing nowhere. Doctor, I want an autopsy performed on the other one. Compare the differences with what we learned of Hugh's anatomy. See ifthere have been any recent modifications which might explain thesebehavioural differences. Data, run a biospectral analysis on this Borg. See if he is trying to send a subspace signal to the others. I know of that. Perhaps it will be helpful to both of them. We've journeyed to countless new worlds, we've contacted newspecies, we have expanded our understanding of the universe. Q Gul Evek, those people are Federation citizens and I am swornto protect them. If your troops attack that village, my security forceswill respond. I never realised that you were interestedin trains. Are you aware that at its peak, the Orient Express carriedmore than ten thousandpeople a year? Look, we have no reason to rule out anything. We are notordered to investigate the origins of our guest, nor tell anyone whatthey should believe. We are simply to transport Kahless to the HomeWorld. And while he's here with us, he will be treated as an honouredguest. Captain to Bridge. Situation report. Shall we go again? Mister Worf, I want you to assign a security detail to Jason. There isn't a piano. Picard to Bridge. Red alert. Am I intruding? Of course, Doctor. Sit down. Counsellor. Commander La Forge isattempting repairs even as we speak. If we begin a power transfer, can we restore life supportsystems to that compartment? No. Indeed. Some mistakes? What mistakes could possibly explain theseincredible explosions of velocity? To avenge their deaths. I have just given the computer my command codes, thinking Iwould get control of the ship. Oh, is that all? Well, Data, you're asking probably the mostdifficult of all questions. Some see it as a changing into anindestructible form, forever unchanging. They believe that the purposeof the entire universe is to then maintain that form in an Earth-likegarden which will give delight and pleasure through all eternity. Onthe other hand, there are those who hold to the idea of our blinkinginto nothingness, with all our experiences, hopes and dreams merely adelusion. Report, Mister La Forge. Magnify. Go ahead, Commander. Any commissioned rank? Even ensign? Picard to Ambassador Odan. Make it so, Mister Crusher. Let it have whatever it can absorb. Energise. I have attempted to select a menu that will allow you to samplea variety of dishes, Commander. In that case, my instincts tell me that we'd better hurry. Computer, pull all relevant information with regard toStarfleet regulations on the transfer of officers. Vividly. But if I have forgotten my closest friends andcomrades, as you say, I deserved every word. What do you mean, now? Data, I appreciate your concern. Transporting to the surface isonly going to make a bad situation worse. What do they represent? Unofficially, that's what I hear. What a crowning achievementfor his career. The benefits of relations with the Legarans areincalculable. We've located three underground pockets of carbon dioxide,here, here and here. Our drilling phasers can release enough of the gasto form an envelope which would temporarily hold in the heat of thesun. Abort it! That would be like striking a spark in a gas-filled room. Make it so. I think not. Mister Crusher. Now. No lengthy farewells. Good luck. it's just that ever since I was a child I've always knownexactly what I wanted to do. Be a member of Starfleet. Nothing elsemattered to me. Virtually my entire youth was spent in the pursuit ofthat goal. In fact, I probably skipped my childhood altogether. Do you recommend that we proceed? Q Locate the exact source of the tractor beam. Lock on phasers. Picard to Transporter Room, come in. Maybe we could have inhibited the intron virus by using thenatural antibodies in Spot's amniotic fluid. Yes, that would be more in character, wouldn't it? Quomodo tua Latinitas est? Will, the Kurlan civilisation believed that an individual was acommunity of individuals. Inside us are many voices, each with its owndesires, its own style, its own view of the world. The Kurlancivilisation died out thousands of years ago. It is extraordinarilyrare to find a figurine intact. Professor, this is an incredible find. I haven't reached any conclusion. A good scientist doesn'tfunction by conjecture. Mister Data? You're prepared to grant them independence? On screen. I've no intention of explaining to anyone. We will proceed withour mission to Farpoint as planned. Chief O'Brien, am I right inthinking that you're having a problem with the warp plasma inducers. I would expect nothing less. It won't be for long, Will. Come. Is there evidence of a hull breach? Could plasma from thestreamer have found its way into the ship? Well done. Warp engines ready on previousheading. Warp factor six. The issue now is whether or not he killed K'mpec. I'm convinced that Q isn't telling us everything. See what youcan find out. Counsellor Troi? Actually, the Second World War, although disastrous, did endwith the United States taking its place as a dominant world power andcultural influence in the second half of the twentieth century. Additionally, that war was a catalyst of technological advancement. Developments in rocketry and fission resonate on into the twenty fourthcentury. Will, I do appreciate your not asking, but I do think that youhave a right to know. There is a possibility that the boy is my son. Iwas involved with his mother for a short time about twenty four yearsago. We met through a friend when I was on shore leave on Earth. It wasall very romantic, very intense, probably because we both knew I wouldbe leaving in two weeks. And we kept in touch for a while, but we nevermanaged to get together again. Yes. Chancellor Alrik. Welcome aboard the Enterprise. I'd like that. RO No, we'll both beam in simultaneously in two different areas ofthe Bridge. With luck one of us will be a distraction. I have to go. Q, enough of this. Q Just follow my lead with the Ambassador. You'll be fine. And the matter of the unidentified subspace radio emissions,and the ionisationdisturbances? While evading even our simplest questions about it. We'lladjourn for now while we all reconsider our positions. I'm afraid that never gets easier. No. It's just that you look very familiar. Specify, Doctor. I've had enough of being led about this way. I don't know what the devil you're talking about. But whateverit is, I assure you it's no concern of mine. Relay his coordinates to the transporter room. Have them beamhim aboard. Commander. All stop. The Judge Advocate also believes that the surviving officersare deliberately withholding vital information from this inquiry. Further investigation is recommended. Will, there was no furtherinvestigation. This report was classified and then it was quietlyburied. Why? For me as well, Ambassador. No. I won't treat a man as a criminal unless there is cause todo so. Would you like to talk about it? Well done, Mister Data. Though I don't think you got CommanderRiker's hair quite right. Come. 47988. I'm not sure. I don't know how or why, but I'm movingback and forth through time. Your rights? What about Rishon? Is she in favour of being hereleft here? Come to the Enterprise. Let me take you where you'll besafe. The flow regulator is frozen. How's it going? Mister Worf, have tractor beams standing by. We may have totake them under tow. Helm, take us within tractor range. Of course, you're giving thanks for your food. I'd forgottenabout that. I wonder how many other cultures have similar customs. Transporter room, what's happening? This is Captain Picard of the Enterprise. Or could he be lying? We're reading a disruption of the tachyon net in your area. How can we help? If there is something else, any further courtesy? Standing by, Number One. Because, because you've lost the capacity for self-judgment. Now, alcohol does this, Wesley. But this contaminant we've brought backfrom the Tsiolkovsky does it even more so. I am Captain Jean Luc Picard of the Enterprise. For whatreason have you locked your weapons on us? Now, Doctor Counsellor, couldn't you? As it was intended. Then I suggest a secured channel, Admiral. Bridge. Belay that order, Mister Data. Chief Medical Officer Beverly Crusher. Lieutenant Worf. Life form readings? How much longer before we reach them? We do exactly what we would do if this Q never existed. Ifwe're going to be damned, let's be damned for what we really are. How much protection will the shields provide if we attempt topenetrate the wave? Then my doppelganger caused no serious damage? The replica wasconvincing? Counsellor, gentlemen. Forgive this intrusion. I was justpassing by. Counsellor, you're the last person I'd expect to argue infavour of accepting the challenge. Analysis, Mister Data. Let's get the hell out of here. Warp eight. Now, MisterCrusher. Engage. Data, I think it best that you and I should return to theholodeck. Mister Worf, maintain a continuous sensor sweep. Well done. Mister Worf, will you escort the Ambassador to hisquarters. Perhaps Duras or Gowron wishes to improve that relationship. And yet you claim that it is possible, that you're the daughterof Tasha Yar. Explanation? What can we do to prevent this from happening again? Ah, you're just in time. They're about to disembark. You always did have a flair for the dramatic. It is at the heart of our nature to feel pain and joy. It is anessential part of what makes us what we are. No, Number One. We've done all we can to help. Now it's time tomove on. This creature can continue itsexistence without any further interference from us. Oh? I'll be glad to do when I'm free. Counsellor, I want you to stay as close to the crew aspossible. Some of them may feel uncomfortable with Cardassians onboard. I don't want any incidents. Amazing. To exist only in that dreamworld of mythology and thensuddenly to be here, right in front of us. So these introns are causing her to re-combine in anearlier configuration? Perhaps not. It was many years ago, I had a rendezvous. I wasto meet someone. Someone here, at this very table. He's ignoring me. What other explanation is there? Continue, Commander. You have my complete support. You know that. You're becoming quite annoying, Sovak. What makes you think that extraterrestrials are related tothese discoveries. I think it's worse than that. My guess is this refining processof which you are so proud Permission granted. All set, Chief? The Federation will welcome that day. Data, this ship is less than a year out of Spacedock. What arethe chances of this occurring? Forward shields to maximum. Lock phasers on the sentry pods. Prepare to return fire. At Lashmir? Was it like this at Lashmir? A similar situation tothe one we're facing here? Mister Data? The Borg's entire existence was centred around acquiringcultures and technology. If that's changed, then they must have a newobjective. We have to find out what it is. Mister Worf, from thismoment on, I want to maintain a level two security alert. Post armedofficers on every deck. Data, will you wait for me in the corridor. Ferengi vessel from Enterprise, come in. What was the name of that case he was involved in? The Parrot'sClaw. Please. You were saying about the Cardassians? Reverse engines. No, really, I'm quite all right. Just answer me. What planet? Why do these men want you? Yes, indeed. Lock it in on Farpoint Station. Q Do you believe him? I want a frank answer, Commander. Yes. Quite right, Doctor. If all goes well, a terminal one. That's right. I'm Captain Picard. Jean-Luc Picard. Romulan vessel, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of theFederation Starship Enterprise. How do you simulate a cosmic string? It has the gravitationalforce of a hundred stars. Where we are, where we were, and where we will be. Data, I wantthis to be an away team of one. You. I don't think there's any reasonto risk anyone else. Sorry. I'll start at the beginning, which is four years ago. ARomulan battle cruiser strayed into Federation space. Its warp coilshad collapsed, life support was failing. There is no greater challenge than the study of philosophy. Q! Q The remains of a larger vessel. He must have left in the podbefore the ship was destroyed. Don't you think you both might be overreacting? Data is notcapable of the emotions which you are assigning to him. Apparently we were all unconscious forabout thirty seconds. We're all being manipulated, Lieutenant, myself most of all. You know, that sounds like a telephone ringer, but I don't seea receiver. Thank you. That's exactly what I needed. Well done, Data. Whom I've killed? What do you mean? Q Damage report. You understand the difficult position in which I'm placed. Riker! Thank God. We're leaving. It isn't specific. It simply refers toforeign investors. Sale price, twelve point five million United States Deaf? My fault? Mister Data, if what you say is true, then this is not GeordiLa Forge. Are you certain? Let's blast full power into warp nine. Ready? Lunar Five, an orbiting gulag. It seems we're looking a unique phenomenon. One that hasn'tbeen recorded before. What's the distance from our present position? A touch and go down warping? Mister Crusher, prepare to make itso. What the devil is going on here, Number One? Are her requests unusual? There were hostilities? I consider it equally possible that the two of you, andCounsellor Troi, are overworked, and possibly suffering hallucinations. Now this is an order. You will arrange medical and psychiatric exams ofboth yourself and them. Doctor, are you aware everybody is behavingstrangely? On my ship, the leader of an away team has total control of themission. If you want to judge leadership, why not start at thebeginning? Stand by. So what went wrong? Why are they dying? Picard to Bridge. You can believe what you wish. We will be on our way. Come. We sympathise with your situation. Surely there is a solutionwhich can be mutually satisfactory? That could be a problem. The anomaly's so much larger in theother two time periods I appreciate your warning, Prime Minister. We will keep youinformed of our progress. Impractical and provocative. Even assuming that we have thepower to sustain such a tactic. I assure you, Admiral, there's no betterguide into this life for Lal than Data. He's doing an excellent job. Radue, this is Picard. I want you to have it. I really haven't thought that far ahead. Is this the man you saw? I'll be there. You're a very attractive woman. My pleasure. You cannot win. Apparently, that part of the plan didn't work very well. Change course to intercept. I'm on my way. I'd like you at the conn, Lieutenant. Oh, I'm sorry. Jason, I think it's important that we find outone way or another. Would you be willing to permit a genetic test? Very well. Well, the first step is to find out why theEnterprise was transferring power to the Romulan ship. I think we should begin our search in the Romulan engine room. Counsellor, you spent several days on a Romulan vessel. You probablyknow more about the layouts than anyone here. Perhaps I understand this is difficult. All I can do is ask you totrust me. We hope you find the room comfortable. Noble sentiments, but that's too easy an answer. You've beenhere before. You negotiated a release of the hostages with Karnasbefore. Why is it now your answer is an armed raid? It's my away teamyou're sending in there. I think there's something you're not tellingme, and I have a right to know what it is. Of course. There's just one last thing you can do for me. Report. Yes, Lutan, that is her expertise. Worthy of Holmes? Two Federation outposts in sector threezero have been destroyed. There's been no communication with Federationstarbases in sector three one since stardate 41903.2. Doctor Stubbs, if you would like to make one final inspectionof the unit. Serious enough for the leaders to suddenly embrace a Vulcanpeace initiative? I have some difficulty in accepting that. Mister Data, the French language for centuries on Earthrepresented civilisation. I'll inform her. That's correct. Why didn't you just ask for our help? I'm afraid there are two more injuries in Engineering. Jeremy, on the starship Enterprise, no one is alone. No one. No. Status? Commander Data is a valued member of my Bridge crew. Based onwhat I've heard, I cannot allow Commander Data to submit himself tothis experiment. What the hell? Data, unlike King Henry, it is not easy for me to disguisemyself and walk among my troops. That'll be all. They were trying to determine our intent. Theywanted to see if we would fire. Thanks to the two of you, the way has been paved for furtherrescue operations. N'Vek's efforts, and his sacrifice, were not in vain. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Engineering, report. Chorgan, I think you will find Marouk's proposal Admiral, I have every reason to believe that they will resistany attempt to remove them. I strongly urge you to request an emergencysession of the Federation Council. The issue of Dorvan Five must bereopened. Oh, yes. No doubt. Extend hailing frequencies, all languages, all channels. I can't. And I won't. Unless I have unequivocal cooperation. Commander Data, if you have completed yourreview, you are needed in transporter room three. Until they found this formula, barely in time. Picard to DoctorCrusher, come in. Captain's log Put it out! Yes, of course. We could station our ships in the Hugora Nebula to avoiddetection. RO Yes. You might have taken the simple precaution of locking the door. Timothy, can you tell us what happened toyour ship? Admiral, the record regarding the loss of the Pegasus is a bitvague from the moment just before you abandoned ship. Is there anythingthat you can add to the official account? Are you suggesting? Data. Viewer on. Hailing frequencies. I can't think of anyone who would have appreciated it more. Thank you, but I should prepare for the ceremony. Doctor, the Ambassador is not well. Will you please attend tohim in his quarters. That is hardly a scientific observation, Commander. Doors? What do we know about the cause of these wars? Is he? Are you sure? That's very kind. Qapla'! How! How do I do it? How do I destroy everything? The controlroom, the probes, all of it. This is the first time I've seen these two symbols paired. Thatcould be significant. Look, there it is again, and again. And thereagain. This is obviously an important pairing. He isn't chasing heranymore. Do you not see an inherent conflict of interest here? I believe we all know why we're here. If weadmit that, then we can move forward. Acknowledged. Was it a resettlement of their choosing? Admiral, I assure you. The Federation places the highestpriority on this mission and its goal. Now, monitor your speed exactly. When ithits point zero two zero, I want you to restart the engine Mission? Explain. The thought had occurred. Ensign, change course to pursue. Mister Worf, will you hailCaptain Maxwell? And? Headache. Headache. Surely you know what a headache is. Last week when you scored two touches, you liked it wellenough. Today you were dropping your foil. You kept letting me inside. Are the engines operating normally? The support systems are being restored. We're continuingrepairs. Understood. Doctor, the station must be evacuated. I've shut off the tachyon pulses in theother time periods but it hasn't changed theanomaly. Was Doctor Quaice in Engineering during your experiment? Good. Then we can continue our mission without significantinterruption. In my Ready room, Mister Worf. Your lawyer has been dead for centuries. Lieutenant, our Chief Engineer is checking the transport logsof the Potemkin. Perhaps that will shed some light on the matter. Don'tworry, we will get to the bottom of this. And in the meantime, you willbe taken to your quarters. Try and make yourself as comfortable aspossible. 2 That's been locked out with the rest of the commandfunctions. RO JR On screen. What does that mean? Belay that order, Number One. Red alert. One further thing. A special favour. Mister La Forge, prepare to initiate warp drive. What happened to them? Deanna? Counsellor, take a look at this. It appears that Mister Worfhad just beamed these three on board, and according to this, threeother Romulans had been beamed directly to Sickbay just secondsearlier. Commander Riker, please acknowledge. Yes, this is all very interesting. That's welcome news. Dismissed. Mister La Forge. This is not a mission. It's personal. It's between Q andmyself. I don't want the rest of you involved. I know that once you were a peaceful people with a richspiritual life. Then do it. It seems we have no alternative. I would assume we must be on Kesprytt. We're in some kind ofprison cell. The question is, why? I can't imagine that AmbassadorMauric would have any reason to detain us. Report to transporter room six immediately. If that's so, why do you look like you've just signed my deathsentence? If he is the creature of conscience I believe him to be, he hassomeone to help first. Bridge. In the past decade, Manheim has turned some vaguetheories into a practical application. Mister McDowell, alert the main shuttlebay to have allavailable ships and pilots standing by in case we need them. No, Number One. The Sheliak haven't broken a century of silenceto send us after phantoms. An investigation is in order. Set course forTau Cygna Five. That is unusual. On screen. Your invitation was unexpected. I want the fleet underway by oh nine hundred tomorrow. Thankyou, gentlemen. Orders which we can't even verify. And congratulations. I understand that you were selected forthis internship out of hundreds of applicants. Picard here. You see, I can't say. At first I had a sense of confusion,disorientation. I wasn't sure where I was. And then all that passed andit all seemed perfectly natural, as though I belonged in that time. ButI can't There have been three major engagements inthe last two weeks, all of them won by ships loyal to the Duras family. We're getting closer to tracing their movements. Actually, itwas Wesley who put us onto this dimensional jump of theirs. He has beenextraordinary, Beverly. He's going to make a very fine officer. Not a violent man? Then perhaps it is time that we took a closer look at MisterData's dreams. No. He must not be lost. He's not simply an android. He's alife form, entirely unique. Perhaps. But surely it would be wrong to force the issue. Mysense is that he's a very independent young man. Perhaps it would bebest if I left him alone. Let him come to me if he wants to. New cases? That was to have been my question of you, sir. We must trust each other, Tarr. Jalad at Tanagra. He went to the same island as Darmok. Darmokand Jalad Tanagra. I don't think we can stay here too long. Granted. Transporter room, hurry! It's a long range subspace Array. We use it for gathering dataon astronomical phenomena. Yes, Lieutenant? You most certainly should not. I made it clear to you that thefamily would not allow it. Not only have you disobeyed my orders, butyou've interfered in the burial rituals of another culture. You've putboth of us in a very difficult position. The family will have to benotified. I don't doubt that they will react strongly. If the Ferengigovernment becomes involved, as I'm certain they will, this could havevery significant repercussions. I'm not sure how much I can protectyou. What planet? Starfleet's finest. Fancy meeting you here. And all your senses tell you that this woman here is the mostpowerful force on this planet, don't they? Picard to Riker. Good. Enterprise, this is Picard. Beam thechildren up. You mean you're not born reading minds? To keep us from finding that piece of the puzzle. It's fourbillion years old. A computerprogramme from a highly advanced civilisation, and it's hidden in thevery fabric of life itself. Whatever information this programmecontains could be the most profound discovery of our time. Or the mostdangerous. And the Professor knew that. Commander Riker, report to the Phaser Range, please Allow me to introduce my staff. First Officer William Riker,Chief Medical Officer Beverly Crusher, Chief of Security, Natasha Yar. Well, what can we do for you? Yes, the stakes are higher. But then, isn't that when the gamegets interesting, Commander? Estimated time of arrival, Mister Data? I didn't say that. 'Audet Nine, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USSEnterprise. On my way, Doctor. Then Riva the mediator Number One, has it occurred to you that you might be the onewith the problem? I'm aware you've been under stress, and I am willingto let the matter drop if you will report to Sickbay for a fullexamination. Otherwise, I will have to relieve you from duty. Thinkabout it. Mister Worf, see if there's any way we can do to cut throughthe interference and beam them out of there. Freeze. To Apgar, this must have seemed as though CommanderRiker were confirming his worst fears. And I believe it was now that hedecided finally to kill him. Ensign Gates, plot a course into the chasm, manoeuvringthrusters only. Steady as she goes They captured me to find out how much I knew about theiroperation. You're controlling him, and you've corrupted the Borg. It is? Listen to me, Q. You seem to have some needfor humans. Q Gone? There will be no interference from us, Mister Data. Make the mark, Data. Note in ship's log that at this startime,I'm transferring command to the battle bridge. Captain's log, stardate 41153.7. Preparing todetach saucer section. so that families and the majority of the ship'scompany can seek relative safety while the vessel's stardrive,containing the battle bridge and main armaments, will turnback and confront the mystery that is threatening us. I'd rather just observe, if you don't mind. Yes, Mister Singh? I plan on leaving the same way you do. On your ship. Do you know where we can find Orta? Raise shields. Slow to one third impulse power. Bring us to onezero three mark zero two five. Mister Worf, hail the alien vessel. No. I hope I'm not interrupting. I was just coming off duty and Iwanted to see how you were doing. Analyse. Come. I don't suppose you can give me any indication why this manwants you? Mister Worf, the Boraalans already know you. There's no need tointroduce them to anyone new. What is he afraid of? Damn you. Help me! Why did you leave theship? Perhaps someone to answer your questions, Number One. Openhailing frequencies. We've no idea who is on that vessel. My order was a routinesafety precaution. Q Stand by. Interesting question. How long to prepare to die? Please, sit down. Meaning? On special occasions. 2 Attempt to make contact, Mister Worf. Open a channel. Indeed. Fine work. We shall miss you, Mister Crusher. As you'veguessed, final entrance examination scores from Starfleet Academy havearrived. Congratulations. As soon as you have completed the oral exam,you'll be formally admitted. No, no. I'm fine Yes, I know. Where will you go? You will assist us to assimilate this vessel. You are Borg. Youwill assist us. You are the most stubborn woman I ever knew. Very well. That's very good, but I would like to increase the efficiencyto ninety five percent. Geordi, what's going on? We're not here to fight your wars for you. Oh, I'm sorry, Number One. I didn't mean to interrupt. We can't survive in this sun. Where there's mountains, there'sshelter. Exactly, exactly how would you describe God? Who is Masaka? Affirmative, Number One. Are you ready? How do you mean? Is he still alive? Commander Leijten, you said that before Brevelle desertedStarbase one one two last week, he'd been ill for several days. Whatabout Mendez? Why must this One destroy biological organisms? Recommendations? Tasha, go to transporter room three. I wantyou there when the away team returns. True enough. It's a gamble. No. Mister Worf, we have a conspiracy on our hands that couldbe a direct threat to the security of the Federation. In my ready room. Captain T'Jon, we are unable to attach our tractor beam becauseof the intense solar activity. Lieutenant? What do you want? Then I'll just say congratulations for now, Deanna. You'llexcuse me? Did she not even pick up one piece of trash? You want me to bring you back a souvenir? Go ahead, Ensign. Welcome aboard the Enterprise, Ambassador Sarek. Exactly. What's our position? Initiate sensor sweeps. Yes, I'm sure that's true. Well, shall we make our way to theshuttlebay? What have they done to my ship now? There must be one of any number of people could coordinatetheir deployment. Just a moment, Number One! Well, Mister La Forge, it would seem that time is something wehave plenty of. A parade? Do you know what the infection is? Come on, quickly. Come. Computer, locate Commander Morag and Lieutenant Uhnari. Then it's time for me to go. Forward sensors are online. Ensign McKnight, plot a course forthe shortest distance out of the nebula. How could you? How could any of us? What is happening? That's only four. Q Jean-Luc Picard. You're probably not aware of this, but I have never beenparticularly comfortable around children. Yes. And please add that if he is unable to provide a ship,then I am sure there are others in the Klingon Empire who would bewilling to help me. And then, they would have our gratitude. He is alive. All stop. I am less than an hour away from a battle simulation, and Ihave to hand-hold an android. Mister La Forge, I am still havingdifficulty controlling the shuttlecraft. Perhaps not. Mister Data, will you report to my Ready Room? You had no reason to leave. Doctor, Commander Data has informed me of your situation. Do you have the necessary tools to realign the coil? Go ahead, Doctor. Report, Mister Crusher. Perhaps Captain Scott could be of use in accessing thatmaterial. Clara, if we need your help again, I hope we can count on you. Splendid. Splendid. Carry on. Ensign, this is obviously a very dangerous mission. I'm notordering you to take part in it. Ensign T'Su, situation report. T'SU Professor, I ask you to believe me. If you step out of thatdoor, you will cease to exist. I'll be in Engineering. I'm not going to let you waste this. This is more valuable tous as a coolant or disinfectant. I have some friends who are quite well versed in it. Make itso. Oh, that was too easy. All right, Mister La Forge. Kamala, have I not done everything possible to discourage this? Can you counter the effect? Mister Data, how long would it take to get there at warp nine? Damn you. Found something? Mister Data, scan for defences. I had this feeling I had physically leftthe Enterprise. I was in another time, another place. I was somewherein the past. You don't have a brother. Two sisters, Anne and Melissa. Whatthe hell is this all about? Mister Data, you will come with me right now. Do you understandme? Transporter room three, lock onto the away team, prepare tobeam them back. Put there to protect the water. In my years as a Starship Captain, I've had to notify manyparents of the loss of loved ones, but never before a suicide. I wouldlike to be able to offer Lieutenant Kwan's parents some explanation ofwhat happened, to try to help them make sense of this. There are only so many ways to Ten Forward. Ten Forward is thelogical place to be if you want to stay ahead of the baryon sweep. Which Commander Data is following. You've already betrayed your people, Admiral. You've made yourchoices, sir. You're a traitor. Now, if the bitter taste of that isunpalatable to you, I am truly sorry. But I will not risk the lives ofmy crew because you think you can dance on the edge of the NeutralZone. You've crossed over, Admiral. You make yourself comfortable withthat. How is the Ambassador? This is Captain Picard of the Enterprise with a message toLutan, whom I have so far acknowledged as a friend. But you have nowcommitted what our laws regard as an attack upon us. Since you havevisited our vessel, you most certainly know thepower of it. We insist that you reply to this message. Opinion,Counsellor. Will they injure Lieutenant Yar? Counsellor. Number One, you know I like to keep youwell informed as to the nature of our missions. That's not possible. Data, what distance have we travelled? Mister Worf, prepare a probe and launch when ready. Very good, Number One. I'm on my way. Admiral, to you, Lal is a new android. But to Data, she's hischild. If that's so, then there are opportunities awaiting you thatare beyond anything you have ever imagined. Away team, prepare to return to the ship. Proceed. Perhaps, but I don't want to leave any avenue unexplored. Lieutenant Yar, hailing frequencies. Grandpa? What can you tell me about our captors? Dirgo! The probe was launched from Iconia, probably from an automatedsystem. There may be records near the launch site that could help usfind a solution. Are you responsible for this? The geetas? Not this time, Will. I want you on the Bridge. What's wrong, Commander? You having second thoughts aboutbetraying your comrades? Because that's what you've done, betrayedthem. Betrayed them in order to save yourself. You used to be just asecond rate officer, now you're a traitor and a coward. How does thatfeel? Do you see what is happening here, Mister Worf? I still don't know what to make of it. Wasit a dream? Was it one of Q's elaborate tricks? Perhaps you should join me in my Ready room. Very well. Put us into a close orbit. Doctor Pulaski? Beam them straight to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher, incomingwounded. Riker! Do you think that makes you appear courageous? Because you'remistaken. You're a coward, Alkar. You exploit the innocentbecause you're unwilling to shoulder the burdens of unpleasantemotions. Well, this time you will be held accountable. I'm taking youback to the Enterprise to release Counsellor Troi. At last. Good morning. All the life. Perhaps the Professor's number blocks hadsomething to do with organic matter. Mister La Forge, perhaps you should take Mister Data toEngineering. See if you can find the problem. Doctor? We'll discuss this after we've transport over. Picard out. They're going to be with us for a while. Let's find out all wecan about them. Data, the Bynars have stored an enormous amount of material inour computer. We need to access it. We can't. Manual override on shields. That's enough, Data. Explain. But we don't know what's causing the disease. We can't protectourselves against the unknown. What we need is some kind of filter thatdoesn't depend on known biological factors. On screen. On screen. Many. Then beam Doctor Clark aboard by himself. I'm sorry, Will, your information is out of date. The strategicimportance of Outpost twenty three is minimal. Has been for years. Q, what is going on? Q No. You? If the Romulans have returned to this sector we should knowabout that. Mister Worf, any further activity? Are you suggesting we deny her an escape from this environment? Any hallucinations, nightmares? I'm sure you have done a complete investigation, and if youwish to continue it, of course you have my support. But we shall bereaching the Beta Agni system shortly, and I expect you to be rested. Go to Yellow Alert, Lieutenant Worf. I'llbe in Sickbay. In the line of duty. She was thefinest example of a Starfleet Kamala. Yes. Consider the first time a run-through, a rehearsal toshake out the flaws. The second time will succeed if we leave no clues. Proceed with the transport. Extend shields. Go ahead, Number One. Data, it appears that severing the powertransfer has not only prevented the core breach, but has also restored Assemble an away team, Number One. Include whoever the Doctorrequires to assist. Belay that. Admiral, your proper place is on the Bridge. Still on Mintaka Three. Look, he's no use to us. Finish him now. Let me do it for you. Admiral Mendak, I will take whatever action is necessary toobtain the return of the Ambassador. I understand that you'll be serving on board the Bortas. Brull, in twenty days, I hope to be very far away from here. Continue transmitting. I should go. And you have an appointment tomorrow morningearly. You have the Bridge, Number One. I want continuous subspace sweeps. We maybe able to detect a temporal disturbance. Yes. Come in, please. Shut it off. Mister La Forge, lay in a course on thosecoordinates. Data, I want you to stall Danar. Allow himto think he's succeeding. After six years, Number One, I don't think I have any excusesleft. Mister Data, I need you to slow us to impulse speed. None of it suggests anything threatening. If only every lifeform had as much desire to please. Ready to beam down? I'm lookingforward to meeting this Groppler Zorn. Well, the colonists are not going to be happy about that. Someof them have been there for decades. A collection of genetic samples, then. Something, anything. Yousimply cannot let this civilisation die. Who is it, Lieutenant? Oh, theses are archaeological fragments that I've collectedover the years. This is a Silvan glyph stone. Andthis, this is a Gorlan prayer stick. It's really quite rare. Of course. Your daughter has explained your telepathic ability. No. I won't. Is there a way that we can relate to them on their own level,find some way to influence their behaviour? Hailing frequencies. What then? Thank you, Madeline. You even sat in my chair. I was annoyed. Presumptuous childplaying on my ship. But I never forgot how you already knew everycontrol, every display. You behaved as though you belonged on theBridge. And then later when I decided to make you an acting ensign, Iwas convinced you could be an outstanding officer. I've neverquestioned that conviction, until now. The first duty of everyStarfleet officer is to the truth. Whether it's scientific truth, orhistorical truth, or personal truth. It is the guiding principle uponwhich Starfleet is based. If you can't find it within yourself to standup and tell the truth about what happened you don't deserve to wearthat uniform. I'm going to make this simple for you, Mister Crusher. Either you come forward and tell Admiral Brand what really took place,or I will. As soon as the last of the colony is evacuated, I want thoseperimeter teams out of there. Is that understood? Thank you, Enterprise. Well, now that we're under way, I cantell you about our mission. Starfleet Intelligence believes theCardassians are developing a metagenic weapon. I shall summon him for you. Get Riva here. How was the Bat'leth tournament? Goss has fired a missile at the wormhole. Where's Commander Riker? All right, I think I've found it. Unfortunately, we don't know where the escape pod is. Make it so. Mister La Forge, begin work on that homing device. If it was the probe, that explains theYamato. But how do you account for the difficulties the Enterprise isexperiencing? I will not allow my people to entertain you until you do. Surely he must have logged the cause of the ship's death. Whatcaptain wouldn't? Have you been treated well, Lieutenant? But what if it isn't a fantasy? Are you willing to take thatchance? It's possible. What's keeping them? Commander Kurn I think that you should enjoy the hospitality of the ship. Mister Data here will see to your every comfort. If you will excuse me. I cannot believe this was not an arbitrary attack. With no guarantee of finding anything when you arrive. Well,you have twelve hours to think it over. And if it's not too premature,congratulations, Captain. I've just come from a meeting with AdmiralMoore. He wanted to discuss this. I think I'll go update my itinerary. On whose authority? I would be very happy to explain that to you, but for now Imust ask you and your men to leave immediately. No. I haven't spoken to you before. We're looking for DaiMon Solok. According to the laws of physics, this is impossible. We wouldhave no idea how to do it again. You are aboard the Enterprise, Captain. One seven oh one D. Youhave come twenty two years into the future. Commander La Forge has a possible solution. The margins oferror are extremely critical, but if successful, there'll be no morethreat. Right. On viewer, Mister Worf. Children are not allowed on the Bridge. We'll go into that later. Right now I mustspeak to Lieutenant Commander Data. Let us do no such damned thing! What is this need of yours forcostumes, Q? Have you no identity of your own? Q Let it go. You'll have to make course changes manuallyuntil we re-establish the connection. You have the Bridge, Number One. Extraordinary. We might be able to deliver it to the same destination. Continue the hail, Mister Worf. Priority one message. Do youknow what that ship might be? Picard to La Forge. It is a life form and it has intelligence. Are you always accustomed to getting your way, Doctor? These were not ghosts. what did we see? Very well. Begin the torpedo modifications. Computer, estimate the time from this location to Starbase fourone six at warp nine. Who will one day be a man and, to extend the metaphor, willneed a fine edge that won't dull at the first touch of resistance. Mister La Forge, your status? That's not the point. It would be It would beinappropriate for you to carry out the procedure. And if you succeed, can you use that information to help yourmother? Doctor, what was your impression of Graves? Food. Six hour? The banquet will be completely over by then. That'svery unfortunate. Good. Now, that bundle of wires, that's optical cabling. Seehow much of that you can pull out. Guilty of what? Q I must say, I was little surprised when Commander Riker told methat you were aboard the Jenolen. Our records didn't show you listed asa member of the crew. Go ahead, Mister Worf. Well I don't believe it! What if their long range scanners arefaulty? We have to go there and see for ourselves. Name. The Klingon ship Qu'Vat has arrived with Governor Torak. Pleasereport to the Observation lounge. La Barre, France. Captain's log, stardate 46360.8. The negotiationswith the Cardassians have made little progress. I believe a militaryconfrontation may be unavoidable. What do we do? How do we stop it? So far off course? DATA Do you predict any change in the near future? Will. Look, I'm sorry, I cannot help you to make this decision, but I can tell you this. Klingons choose their friends with great care. If he didn't know he could count on you, he never would have asked. Additional information. The number ofcolonists at the site is five hundred and four. Are you prepared forthat many, Doctor? I wouldn't miss this for the world. How oldare you? Perhaps there's a residue of humanity in Q after all. Ensign,en Q Well, there's plenty of time for that. You may decide to dosomething else as you get older. I didn't know when to tell them we will be there. Is ourbusiness with the J'naii finished? It was an errand of mercy. He was injured, Doctor Crusherdecided for humanitarian reasons to care for him. A scout ship? What would a scout ship be doing this far intothe Neutral Zone? But you would rather stay and find out what it is? What is itsintent? A very old regulation. Well, make it so, Number One. And reducespeed. Drop main shields as well. What about those crewmembers who are not from Earth? Would you like some tea? You will address me as Captain. Do you seriously believe that the Federation will notimmediately intervene? Number One, get us to Daled as quickly aspossible. Guinan, your people have been in this part of the galaxy. His eyes. Come. Yes, Mister Data, I can see it. A great poet once said, 'all spirits are enslaved that servethings evil'. A message? Very well. Tell Gowron, leader of the High Councilof the Klingon Empire, that his Arbiter of Succession, Jean-Luc Picard,needs a favour. Yes, Professor, I know. What if one of those lives I save downthere is a child who grows up to be the next Adolf Hitler or KhanSingh? Every first year philosophy student have been asked thatquestion ever since the earliest wormholes were discovered. But this isnot a class in temporal logic. It's not theoretical, it's nothypothetical, it's real. Surely you see that? They can insert them into the recall loop? What happened after the welcoming ceremony? How interesting. And you  PICARD That's where they're going through. Send a signal to the fleet. All ships to fall back and rendezvous at Gamma Eridon. We'llre-establish the net there. It appears that he's involved with one of the rival factions. We believe that he is responsible for what happened to you. Computer, activate Picard Mozart trio,programme one. Play back tracks one, two and three. Tempo allegro. You're the loneliest person in the world right now. No one cansay anything, no one can do anything that will help. And you think thatit will never go away. And you're right, it won't. But you can get usedto it. I know it doesn't feel like that now, but you can. Now, I may not have your gifts at reading emotions, Counsellor,but I can tell when someone is in pain and hiding it. Data, I can barely see. They have been monitoring me on my communicator, executing aprearrangedprogramme on her ship's computer, a fairlyingenious combination of force-field projection, holography andtransporter effects. Ardra controls her magic literally bythe blink of an eye. Centuries old technology. An implant which permitsthe movements of her eye to choose and activate each illusion. Ardra once told us that she is known by many names. Well, at least inthat she was being honest. Her crew has admitted that she is known bytwenty three aliases in this sector alone. I'd say that that is Masaka. Ihat referred to her as a queen,and it's not unusual in ceremonial cultures to find royalty symbolisedby a sun. Sometimes, Number One, you just have to bow to the absurd. It was a fast decision, which we must takeas positive. The Alphan representative has agreed, however reluctantly. to let you mediate the dispute. Of course. You're familiar with this life form? Please, get up. Get up. You must not kneel to me. Legends like that are the spice of the universe, Mister Data,because they have a way of sometimes coming true. Always, Number One. Beverly, he's got to want that help. If he doesn't, then anyefforts on our part can only push him further away. He's got to workthis out for himself. Data. What is she? I hope this will be brief. Against your wishes. Mister Conor, we were unaware that there were human colonies inthis system. But there are only six ships. We could even cut back thatnumber. RO If you can demonstrate that he is biologically harmless withoutrisk to the crew, I'll do everything in my power to assist. And Doctor,God knows I'm not one to discourage input, but I would appreciate it ifyou'd let me finish my sentences once in a while. I need to contact my ship to let Commander Riker that we'reabout to sit down. Both of you. This is getting us nowhere. Audio on. You have a burn-out in your guidance system, Captain. Then, it's a race? An alien intelligence, a new life form,representing a technology far beyond that of either the Romulans orourselves. The Romulans will certainly take whatever measures arerequired to secure this creature for study. This is my Security Chief, Lieutenant Worf. Freeze. Well, Number One, youare allowed a complementof forty, so select whom youwill, save of course Mister Data,who will serve as myfirst officer during yourabsence. Precisely what Data recommended, as I recall. At least it gaveCommander Riker the opportunity to consider his promotion. Now thathe's accepted, we can leave him at Starbase Montgomery. Sophistry. And assemble the bridge staff for a mission briefing in fifteenminutes. Picard out. Mister Elbrun. Would you Lower the forcefield. No. We're to be presented with evidence today. We'll need your helpin analysing it. I wonder what they talked about? Neither do I, Counsellor. How soon can you beat Galorndon Core, Number One? Who are you? Mister Worf, have security evacuate all personnel from thosedecks. You say this is Earl Grey? I'd swear that it was Darjeeling. It's a map. Translation? From whom? Fire all weapons. Lwaxana, as a matter of fact, I am rather busy at the moment. Apparently so, Number One. Starfleet believes that theirpresence is an attempt at communication. Commander. Yes, for a very good reason. Counsellor Deanna Troi is inSickbay, dying. Doctor Crusher doesn't know the cause of her condition,but I believe you do. I am the Captain of this vessel! Your order is nullified! Ferengi on main viewscreen. You agreed that she has a right to chooseher own future. The first chance you get you try to abduct her. Q Counsellor Troi had the good sense to ask for shore leave. Ican see I'm going to have to suggest it to you. Have a good time,Number One. Ben Maxwell. He must be quite a man. Listen to that. He sounds very angry, really, reallyaggressive. What do you think he wants? Do you think he's responding tosome predatory instinct? Do you think he see us as prey? Begin the pass. Redblock. I have the item. Picard to La Forge. Picard to Salia's quarters. Is it reversible? Sir, I see no way to protect the Cardassian peace withoutsacrificing the Bajorans. It's too close to be a coincidence. Mister La Forge? Bridge to Transporter room three. Prepare to beam two from theJenolen as soon as we're within range. Nobody's going in there until we have done a full sensoranalysis. I want to do everything possible to determine that it's safe,and when I am satisfied, then you, Data, and Commander La Forge willenter the wormholetomorrow. Sensor beam bearing on hostile ship! Very good. Data, I have an assignment for you. One especiallysuited to your talents. Is there a fuel containment leak? Commander, will you escort Investigator Krag to TransporterRoom Three. You are not God. Q Status, Mister Data? Data, override its destination. Divert that turbolift to aposition near Lieutenant Worf's present location. The pain is going away. It will not be easy, but with Admiral Necheyev's support, Ithink they will go along with it in the end. Why didn't our sensors alert us? Doctor, there must be a cure. Some formula, similar to the oldone, Because your presence gives me potential access to a kind ofinformation that I've never had available to me before, and if I am tore-examine my beliefs, then I must take advantage of every possibleasset. It would be irresponsible of me not to ask you here. Helm take us in to twenty millionkilometres. Any questions? She's been in direct contact with the boy for eighteen minutes. Excellent. They're not even troubling to cloak themselves. RIKER Can you help us locate him? Suggest what the Romulans were doing? Mister La Forge, how long do you think it will take theRomulans to detect the tachyon field once it's activated? What? Oh, yes. Alright. What do you mean? Do they intend to destroy it? Access spectral analysis, mode two, begin scan. Thank you, Lieutenant. On screen. This is a rash decision, ill considered. It's not like Beverlyat all. Ambassador Tomalak. Welcome aboard the Enterprise. We are sworn to uphold the principle of the Prime Directive,and until that is changed there is no further course of action that wecan take. Is that understood? Excuse me. What can I do for you, MisterBender? Anything? Run it again. Computer, freeze. Call up the intelligence scanof Spock on Romulus. Computer, enhance far left figure and compare. Same man. Pardek. One question answered. What do we know of him? When did you last time you look in on the Antedean guests? You look exactly like Robert when he was your age. I halfexpect to see myself as a boy come running out that door to play. I've been examining the dynamics of what used to be called thecon game. Quite fascinating. Worthy of your study, Data. In spite of all you've done to me, I find you a pitiable man. Well, let's move on to another survey region. Have stellarcartography begin a Good. That's good. You see, my people once lived in caves. Andthen we learned to build huts and, in time, to build ships like thisone. No one has been hurt. You have achieved your objective. Youhave your planet back in order. We have our ship. Well, it's been sometime since I had the conn. But not to worry, Number One, you're in goodhands. Starbase 74, warp two. Engage. Everything's under control. Doctor Crusher is still making her determination. Mister Mandl,you know the Prime Directive. Keep this channel open. It is beyond my power. In good time, Duras. Who's the captain of this ship? I understand. Counsellor? Doctor, every person on that ship over there died. Is there anychance that whatever did it is loose on my ship? And just what location are they accepted from? What is it, Geordi? We were hoping that you could tell us. No. I, er, I just thought that I might, erm, I might join youthis evening. If there's room. Data? Launch torpedo. Destroy the Enterprise. Mister Data, you said that you found organic matter in thetemporal aperture. That will not be necessary. I have full confidence in myEngineering staff. I will be at the banquet on time. Picard out. On screen. Long range scan, Mister Data. It wasn't possible, Doctor. Are you suggesting he was conscious? Come. How's life on DS Three? Believe what you wish. Q Proceed with the evacuation, Number One. There must be. P2 I'm not convinced of that. Excuses, Mister Crusher? If he can put an end to all the years ofblood-letting on those planets, I think we should do everything in ourpower to assist him. I imagine you know why I've asked you here. Mister Barclay, remove yourself from the computer system. Leavethe holodeck. It was my understanding that there would be no Cardassianpresence here for another six weeks. Your arrival here may have upsetsome very delicate negotiations. I thought twice was pushing it a little. Apparently, not when to duck. Can you strengthen the graviton pulse? This culture will be assimilated. Report. RO It appears to be the same effect that you described in us. Doyou remember anything? Damage report! On screen. Come. Hmm? What? Oh, er, France. Labarre. My home village. Deploy the fleet, Will. It's time to spread our net. There's something about the flame, the smell of the smoke. It'salways seemed to me to be intoxicating, somehow. He has brought a child onto my ship and on my Bridge. Are you saying it's attack on Yar was not arbitrary but part ofsome tactic? Why not? I would appreciate it if we could discuss it now. You see, Ifeel that I would like to move beyond astrophysics to Engineering orSecurity, something that might even lead to Command. Oh, yes, I do. That is why we must to stop this now, beforeit's too late. What's happening, Mister La Forge? We're losing speed. Keep trying them. Communications are bound to be erratic. I am aware of Federation regulations, sir, and if youinvestigate them further, you will find the captain decides ifextradition is warranted. As you wish. Admiral, I would like to send down a complete away team He's has been attending a seminar on artificial intelligence onRisa. Very well. If you will accompany us to the Bridge. No, please, Mister Worf, come in. I'm on my way. Why did you come to Tagus Three? Mister La Forge, set course zero fiveeight, mark one seven three. This can't be. You've been No. Just not very good. Ensign, full about. Go to warp two. Rishon, I can touch you. I can hear your voice, I can smellyour perfume. In every respect you are a real person with your own mindand beliefs, but you do not exist. You died along with the others,defending the colony. He recreated you, just as he recreated the house. I've read your reports. Governor, we would like Commander Morag to remain on board theEnterprise until this investigation is complete. The final game against Minsk. You know as well as I do, Bok, he's not my son. I know whatyou've done. Miranda Vigo is his mother but I am not his father. Youmade it appear so because you resequenced his DNA. But your techniquewas flawed. He developed a neurological disorder. When my ship's Doctorinvestigated it, she discovered what you had done. Now, if these men do not die well, it will be a black matterfor the king that led them to it. Hailing frequencies. What do you want of us? Data! Bags of mostly water? Ambassador K'Ehleyr will be preparing me for my role in therite of succession. No, of course not. Our plan for them worked out well. But Iwish that Vorin could have bridged the gap between our two cultures. Iwould have liked the chance to have known him better. Commander. That's very impressive. Data, you have the helm. I'll be inEngineering. Guinan is not the issue here. You are. We had an agreement thatyou would stop meddling with us. Q He's asking for your help because you're his friend. That means that you're going to have to make your decision based on that friendship. It is the differences that have made us strong. Good. Course one one eight mark three five seven, full impulsepower. Signal the fleet to get underway. We'll enter warp once we'reclear of the system. They've been waiting a long time for this. They're not going totake any risks. Now, take one of the artefacts and beam down.  So long as Moriarty has control of the ship, we are vulnerable. Somehow, I have to find a way of giving him what he wants. Then in that case Mister Worf, I want security teams along the main passagewaysand in every transporterroom. And see if the computer would be good enough to give you theprecise stun setting to disable Mister Data. Look, I am never critical of any member ofmy staff being curious, but it's just that the timing is so Yes, the leading scientist of Kaelon Two and Now! The situation is under control. How about a sandwich? Stand by for Commander Riker, Chief. He's on his way. Picard to Bridge. Ensign Hoy? Please go ahead. Lieutenant Riker has been to see me to talk about the awaymission. He believes that the only way to retrieve the database is bydirectly accessing the main core underneath the station. Would you like to make a statement before we begin? Why? Romulan warbird, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of theFederation vessel Enterprise. You have crossed into the Neutral Zoneand are engaged in hostile action. Explain yourself and your intent. Logic fails us sometimes, Data. I think this is one of thosetimes. I can only guess that he does not see, or he does not wish tosee, the truth. And he is being insulated against that truth by thosewho love him most. And now, Lutan, you have boldly taken Lieutenant Yar from us,and we ask that you now please return her. But surely that's an impossible task for you, Data. Have you tried reconfiguring the plasmaconduits? Well, not a matter of great moment, just a knot I had to untie. So, what do you want to see me about? Steady on that. One moment, Doctor. I'm sure you are aware of the procedureinvolving passengers. Any transmissions are simply scattered and refracted at random. No wonder you can't get through. Yes, I know. But I wanted to go riding, but I didn't have mysaddle, so I went back to get it and Good. Transporter Chief O'Brien, has served with Benjamin Maxwell. Ithought that he might be able to provide some insights. Mister O'Brien, I understand that Captain Maxwell lost his familyduring a raid on an outpost. Resume previous course, Ensign. I've had to send people on far more dangerous missions. Aaron! Is anything wrong? Bridge. Deception? Doctor Apgar killed himself during his attempt to killCommander Riker. What? Objection, Your Honour, I want this read. All of it. I don't think you are aware of your situation, or of how muchtime has passed. We have to keep it up long enough for Commander Riker to get tous. Do you know what a court martial would mean? Your career inStarfleet would be finished. Acknowledged, Number One. A nursery. Mister Data? Are any of these systems near Romulan space? That's an old human expression. Mister LaForge hopes that we'vegot close to achieving what you wanted. Then we have no way to track him. Yes, Mister La Forge. It seems that the exemplary nature ofyour work has caught the attention of Starfleet Command. In fact,someone is coming on board just to see the engine modifications you'vemade. Ohniaka Three? There's no strategic value to that outpost. Werethey able to identify the attackers? Thank you, Number One. Lieutenant, do you still feel that youwant to go through with this challenge? Do you judge your conditiongood? The honour is ours. You know, earlier, I was reading this book, and I had thedistinct feeling I'd read certain paragraphs before. But I assumed I'dread the book years ago and I'd forgotten. Counsellor? I hope you understand our need to verify your claim. 2 And it's your belief that this is what made it possible forthem to construct this base to Starfleet standards? What is going on down there? Do you wish the bodies returned? Is the boy ready, Number One? Good. Doctor, report. Keep a close watch on it. So close to the Neutral Zone it can'tbe random. Let's see what happens when it hits the shields. I understand your desperation. The shock of learning you weredying. But you had no right to do what you have done. Do it. The convergence of the tachyon pulses from the threetime periods is what is causing the anomaly. Would you say that she's just trying to do her job? It'll cause trouble. He's a Nausicaan. They can get veryill-tempered if they lose. So, how old are you, Mister Worf? Well it looks like we're going to be on Caldos for a few daysmore. This will be a good opportunity to get your grandmother's affairsin order. Oh, please. I feel fine. Astonishing. Commander Riker, have science lab three begin aseries of gamma emission tests. Use caution, but protect Graves' health Do you think that we attacked your outposts? Very well, Ensign. I will. It took courage to come here andface me after what I said to you the other day. I didn't ask you herebecause I was assessing your qualifications for the Ops position. That table. Is there any way for us to duplicate Everything we do tightens its grip. Let's see what we canlearn. Launch a Class one probe. Very well, Data. Do you know what all this is about? Enterprise, this is Picard. Stop this foolishness, Q. Return meto the Enterprise. Q You copy, Number One? Yes, sir. I can imagine you would be. Can you divert more power to thecontainment field? Mister La Forge, what are your thoughts? What a tangled web we weave. I have difficulty rememberingwhose side I'm on. So, what have you been able to find out? Come. Just the computer. We have to get as much information as possible about thatanomaly. Ficus sector. Point taken. When children learn to devalue others, they can devalue anyone,including their parents. The ship is looking for vertion particles and it believes thatthe Cordannas system is the closest source. Is there any possibility ofanything closer? Commander. I can't let the soliton wave hit the colony. Youhave three minutes, not one second more. It's a perfectly good shuttlecraft. Let's not keep them waiting, Mister Worf. What did you say? Energise. They're threatening to attack the Enterprise. How long ago? What do you mean by that? Yes, Counsellor. Come, sit down. Counsellor, you've had theopportunity to observe Doctor Pulaski for some time now. How would youevaluate her as a Chief Medical Officer? Attempting to let our captors know that we possessintelligence. Maman? Wesley, no! Computer, exit. Shut up, Wesley! Lieutenant, pick a good security team, let meknow what he does. You should feel bad, and you will pay for what you've done. Admiral Brand has decided that in addition to a formal reprimand, youracademic credits for the past year will be cancelled and you will notadvance with your class. I know, Counsellor, that the crew has always had fullconfidence in me. But what if it were to change? I think that you are beginning to tire. It is difficult,brightening the sky forever. Don't depend on it. For all we know, he may still be lying, butwe shall find that out soon enough. Number One, set course for NelvanaThree. Second officer's log, stardate 43465.2. We haveentered the Neutral Zone in direct violation of the Treaty of Algeron. Presuming Romulan warships are cloaked and monitoring us, we expectheavy resistance as we approach Nelvana Three. I beg your pardon? Not at all. Data, can we beam up the injured? I'll go through the gate. Your apprehension suggested it, when we first arrived. Tell meabout these patterns. So what do I do? I have on board Sovereign Marouk of Acamar Three. I want you tohear what she and Brull have to say. Perhaps we can find a substitute. That's a human that has the answers to a lot of questions. Set course zero three seven mark zero zero five, warp four. Take us into the Neutral Zone, Ensign. This is Commander Riker's meeting. I'm inclined to agree. I don't think that forty eight hours istoo much time to risk particularly when the gains areso substantial. You may proceed, Doctor. Of what? Mister Conor, I believe that you and I should talk. The experiment achieved a stable coretemperature for a short time, Minister. That's a significant stepforward. It wouldn't be possible. Given the importance of the data, I think that it's worth therisk. It's trying to communicate with us. Let me just say that we would not take such a direct approach. Ambassador, I have tell you that in my culture, what you have donewould be considered a crime. Determine the absolute minimum field energy Doctor Crusherneeds and use the rest to get me onto my Bridge. If you can at least help us locate our people. Are you suggesting they're not who they say they are? To be sure of what? We both know that's not true. Understood. Mister La Forge, how long do you estimate it will take torestore the engines? Yellow alert. Prepare for evasive action at the first change inthe Romulan's course. What do you want? Who are you? Who are you? It is for a mission that could have repercussions throughoutthe quadrant. Then set course for Sarona Eight. As I remember we were on ourway for some much needed shore leave. Yet her neural activity is practically non-existent. And his father? Starbase Earhart. We came here right after graduation to awaitour first deep space assignments. Q Never mind the details. Can you remove it? Tayna, exactly is Apgar doing here? Evasive manoeuvres, full. You're right. I was out of line. It won't happen again. Butwhat you have to understand is what is at stake here. Q has said thatall of humanity will be destroyed. Halloween? Excellent. We will transmit the information shortly. Enterpriseout. It's general policy. How so, Data? Or maybe he was thrown back in time, so that we would be ableto take another road. Make a different choice. Well, they say if youtravel far enough you will eventually meet yourself. Having experiencedthat, Number One, it's not something I would care to repeat. Think! Put the flame out in your thoughts. Absolutely. That happens to be why I came to Risa. I noticed that Lieutenant Worf put Ensign D'Amato on report forinsubordination. Yes. Let's get on with it. Why not? What are you afraid of? Attention all hands. As you know, we could outrun the Klingonvessels, but we must protect the Enterprise-C until she enters thetemporal rift. And we must succeed. Let's make sure history neverforgets the name Enterprise. Picard out. Those are some fairly aggressive computations, Lieutenant. Although an object appears solid on the holodeck, in the realworld they have no substance. I may regret doing it, but I am not able Picard here. On screen. Surprised? She's an old friend. With a cloaked satellite? You must love her very much. Please, just tell me, what is this place? Where am I? What would cause such a loss of control? Make it so, Number One. Captain, we have analysed your problem. I am open tosuggestions. Excuse me. A tornado? Why wasn't it dissipated by the weather modificationnet? Back us off, Ensign. Nice and slow. RO Sarek, we're a part of each other. I know that he has causedyou pain but I also know that you love him. My duties in that regard are finished. Number One? Engage. Shaka indeed. What now, Captain? Will you attack me in mysleep? If I don't freeze to death first. Qapla', Ambassador. Oh, no. We cannot allow ourselves think that. The SeventhGuarantee is one of the most important rights granted by theFederation. We cannot take a fundamental principle of the Constitutionand turn it against a citizen. Lieutenant Worf will escort you. Yes, we do. Expanding? I thought that time was suspended on this ship. That's how it felt. Mister La Forge, I believe we will postpone. If an apology will do, then I offer it. Of course. Picard, Jean-Luc. And what you saw was some sort of a mouth on Troi's shoulder? Thank you for your generous offer. I will take it underadvisement. Number One, ready an away team. Captain's log, supplemental. We are in orbit aboveTurkana Four, an Earth colony that severed relations with theFederation nearly fifteen years ago. I am concerned about sending anaway team, but if we are to discover the fate of the two missingFederation crewmen, I see no alternative. Lieutenant Yar, where are they now? Take us out of warp. On screen. We're accommodating you in quartersnormally reserved for Starfleet admiralty. I'm sure you'll find themquite comfortable. They're not convinced that you are fully Q. And they are alsoresponsible for your parent's death. Take him. And be careful, Number One. Look, I have no reason to believe that Q islying. He claims he has orders from the Continuum. If Amanda cannotprove that she is fully Q, then he must kill her. Mister Crusher, set course for the nearest starbase. Oh, well, to tell the truth, that wasn't the first run-in I'dhad with a couple of surly Nausicaans. With a Ferengi as an associate? Mister Barclay, this is a direct order. Discontinue whatever itis you're doing. Anna! Anna! Proceed with the autopsy. Medical log, stardate 46075.1. I have performed anautopsy on Alkar's mother, but instead of answering our questions, theresults have created an even deeper mystery. So what went wrong? Where are it's creators? Where are thepeople of Minos? Ensign. Come back with me. They won't know how much you know. You mayshake loose the truth. Your concern is noted, Doctor, but anyintervention on our part would alert the Borg to our having been here. On the contrary, it is a strength. Q This is very reminiscent of Dinasian. Terraform Command has asked us to see how you were gettingalong. Proceed. Back to full stop, Ensign. Very well. Mister LaForge, give him a hand. I'm okay. Penetrable? Data, this could be some sort of embryo. Suggestions? Enterprise, I'm losing manoeuvrability. We're all missing some of the fragments, not necessarily thesame ones. Unless we combine the ones we have, we will never learn thesecret of theprogramme. More than anything else, you wanted the Enterprise away fromRana, because the house, the plot of land, your very existence, wereincongruities that you were not prepared to explain. The warship,another recreation, tried to chase us away twice, and failed. But whenI came to your house the second time, I provided you with the onlycondition that would make the Enterprise leave. Your deaths. You didyour best to satisfy that condition. Are you Masaka? Unless, of course, if you would prefer a porch. It wouldcertainly be easier to build. I could make a start on it right away. Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise. We have rescued four crew members from your observation craft. Theyhave received medical attention. The are ready for transport. Well, it worked. They believed they wereoff the holodeck. That energy cloud, Commander. I believe it important we haveanother look at it. I wish I could be certain that we'd tried everything. How do you know this? I didn't expect that you would, Beverly. Make it so. Then, perhaps it's still alive. You're certainly not an old lady. Doctor Crusher, what do you think you're doing? These are specialists, highly trained observation teams,superficially identical to yourselves and therefore able to blendnaturally into your society. You see, we have discovered that the mosthazardous aspect of these missions is a lack of sufficient information What things? What people? Is there any change in the anomaly? A loose alliance formed in the early part of the twenty secondcentury. It was the first stirrings of worldgovernment. You should read more history, Number One. Computer, locateexact dates in which this signal beacon was in general use. If an automated message system is still functioning, therecould be other systems on that planet that are still operational. Think of giving him some of yourstrength. Now, this is an order. You must try to do this. Status, Number One? Well, this is unusual. What are you looking for? Enough of this. Q Go ahead, Number One. Well, we'll discuss it. JR You know that is impossible. I understand, Number One. Now we know whyall that is there. It is possible that this exchange of fire was the catalyst forthe formation of a temporal rift. History has no record of your battlewith the Romulans. I can't. You're right, Mister Tholl. Any of us may be theenemy. And there is no way to prove that we aren't. But until we setaside our mutual fears and trust one another, we have no hope ofescape. The reason is obvious, of course. What are the Ferengi up to? Stand by, Enterprise. Stand by for what? I require a cloaked vessel. Graves, listen to me. No one can deny the significance of yourtransformation. But I don't believe that this was part of your plan. Encountering Data was mere coincidence. One that offered you more thanyou could have dreamed. But something has gone wrong. Look here. Graves, this experiment must be terminated. Then Masaka is your queen? I see. Well, Mister Worf, as you're aware, several new securityofficers will be transferring to the Enterprise next week and I wouldlike to discuss. But not his mother. Picard to Lieutenant Worf. See if you can find out any more details, Mister Data. I'd liketo know more about that storm. Thelusian flu? What else? The crew of the Raman are dead. I would like to retrieve themand their vessel, but not if it means putting Geordi's safety at risk. Not smugness, not arrogance. But we are resolute, we aredetermined, and your help is not required. Q Sounds fascinating, Mister Worf. Please proceed. Then why didn't you let him die? Let's just hold this position. Counsellor? You have said yousensed no intelligence in all of this. You haven't changed in thatbelief? Stand by. Picard out. I want to speak to her personally abouther son. So you promise that Wesley Crusher is safe until sundown? It doesn't make any difference, Jason. You're still my son. And, like it or not, I'm your father. I don't know what that means, butit means something. There's some connection. Masaka, show yourself. I will go with you. No. What do you want, Sirol? Mister La Forge, out of orbit. Warp five. This has nothing to do with me. This is about you. If you backout now, you'll throw away everything you've worked for. We'recommitted to this mission. My only question for you is, can you carryout your orders? I could put you before a board of inquiry for havinglied to me about this operation. I would certainly have youcourt-martialled if you sabotage it. Now, it's your decision. RO This is it. No, no, no. More fundamental doubts. Whether or not it can bejustified. Contact DS9. Find out what they know about this Yridian trader. I know that. But it is imperative that you disengage thetachyon pulse immediately. Let it go. Welcome, Etana. The Enterprise has been secured. We await yourfurther instructions. Curious? Oh, Counsellor Counsellor, will you bring Timothy to my Ready room? No. I'm really anxious to see the final artefact, because it mightprovide a valuable insight into Vulcan mythology. Enterprise, three to transport. No names, no reason. Can you identify them, Vigo? If they comein a second time with our shields damaged Stand back, Haro. Yes, but what does it all mean? Can we go to warp speed? How is Odan? I believe my associate, Mister La Forge, may be bringing theanswer to that question. I request a recess. Sit down. And if I don't inform you there is a reason. I don't likekeeping you in the dark, but for the next few days I may not be able tobe as communicative as usual. It may make things difficult for you. No, no, I'm sorry, Geordi. I'm not prepared to risk your life. Data, find another way of salvaging the Raman. I want an alternate planin two hours. Status of download, Mister Data? I believe that one of you has a fragment from Indri Eight. Why not? Explain. No, it's just that for a moment you sounded more like WillRiker. We have received information that the new host will arrive ineighteen hours. Will you be all right until then? What's going on? I'm right. Why do doctors always say the obvious as though it's arevelation? And that decision plunged them into forty years of civil war. I have admitted that. I am only asking for a littleflexibility. He cried. I saw that. I couldn't believe it. A Vulcan moved totears by music? It's Yellow Alert. This is my First Officer, Commander William Riker. Second incommand, Data. Counsellor Troi. Why didn't you report it? I'll explain. But first, tell Leech to back off. And good luck. Lieutenant Worf, personal log, stardate 44996.1. Ihave located the Klingon ship on which my brother Kurn serves ascaptain, and have arranged to join him. Inform the Bridge. Mister Data, with me. Acknowledged. Maybe now we'll get some answers. It was our pleasure, Mirok. And I hope that this example ofcooperation between our two peoples will not be an isolated incident. The other colony? Captain's log, supplemental. A review of stellarcharts has revealed a Class M planet only half a light year from theBringloid system. I am proceeding on the premise that it was thedestination of the colony which possessed the more sophisticatedequipment. A beginning. But how we proceed is entirely up to you. Commander La Forge is my Chief Engineer. Reverse impulse engines. Yes. Apparently he's confined in some sort of force field. Energise. Go to warp four, Mister Bennett. Set a course for Starbasetwelve. Report. Number One. But why? What possible advantage could there be to theRomulans? As this now stands, I don't think this will have any impacton our strategy. We'll continue the blockade, leave the next move tothem. Thank you. Who is speaking? Imprisonment is an injury, regardless of how you justify. Maintain position! Mister La I hope you won't be late for your exams. Granted. Commander, will you accompany Mister Worf to biolabfour. I don't think that's a little harsh. I think that's the truth. But that's a truth we have obscuredbehind a comfortable, easy euphemism. Property. But that's not theissue at all, is it? Esoqq, how long can you go without food? Mister Data, can you project a course from it? History has shown us that strength may be useless when facedwith terrorism. You should get some rest. We can talk some more tomorrow. Rex's bar? Why do you ask? Oh, you did more than your job. You enjoyed it. What's the matter with the Bridge? Premier Bhavani welcomed you to these proceedings, despite mybetter judgment. Security teams had just been sent to transporter room three. And to Sickbay. Counsellor, will you go to Sickbay and investigate? Mister Data, go to main Engineering. See if you can determine the causeof that power surge. I'll be in transporter room three. Mister LaForge? Ensign, you're with me. Would you object to your Captain ordering aclearly illegal kidnapping? One moment. Mister Crusher? You know Captain Rice? Is the viewer ready? Worf went down. I don't know if he's aliveor dead. And there were other casualties. Are you saying that you're willing to go to war over this boy? Make it so. Hello, Robert. Oh, it is. Who are you? What are you? How the hell are we going to get it out of there? Then you're aware that we have no hostile interaction. Oh, yes, I know all about your troubles with the Camorauthorities. Report. No I decided to walk. I met Marie and Rene. You have the Bridge, Number One. This child is supposed to bring them together. Now please, please, be calm. Lieutenant, thank you. Well, he's always had a certain fascination with humanity, withmyself in particular. I think he has more than a passing interest inwhat happens to me. Come. Captain, would you be prepared to consider the creation of amutual non-aggression pact between our two peoples, possibly leading toa trade agreement and cultural interchange. Does this sound like areasonable course of action to you? Can I get you some coffee? Tea? Counsellor, what is it? A toast. To the young couple and their families. Computer, freeze programme. Computer, end programme. Yes. Which under most circumstances would be unconscionable. But asI see it, the Borg leave us with little choice. Transporter room one, can you lock onPICARD Return fire. Setting, San Francisco California, UnitedStates Of America. The year, 1945 A. D. The office of Dixon Hill,Private Investigator. I want to see neutral representative. If we can get back there and destroy that site, it might put anend to their time travelling. Yes, there is. Judge Advocate General's Report. Stardate 36764. Subject, inquiry into mutiny aboard Pegasus. Basedon testimony from Captain Pressman and other surviving officers, theJudge Advocate believes there is sufficient evidence to conclude thatcertain members of the crew did mutiny against the captain just priorto the destruction of the Pegasus. Mutiny on a Federation starship? That's shocking. It's unthinkable. And yet you've never mentioned it. Enterprise to shuttle, please respond. Commander Tomalak, we have intercepted your transmission. Youare not to enter Federation space. Proceed. Can we go to warp? I should have beamed you up. Once? They sound hungry. Yes. It is your dishonour we are protecting here, isn't it,Duras? Why is that? Counsellor? Walter Horne? Is he still teaching? Don't let this just happen again, Mister Crusher. It is my responsibility to protect the lives of Federationcitizens. I will not permit this abduction to succeed. Some people felt that it was necessary. But we have learned todetect the seeds of criminal behaviour Capital punishment, in ourworld, is no longer considered a justifiable deterrent. I'll try, Counsellor. Still no response from the Klingons, MisterWorf? Does she understand the magnitude of these decisions? Do you know what business they might have together? You choose not to answer? But you've already given an answer tothe inquiry, and that answer was a lie. What about self awareness. What does that mean? Why am I selfaware? Admiral, that is a fine argument, but it doesn't change myfeeling that the proper place for Lal to develop is by Data's side. The one that leads to total annihilation. Survivors? Good. Well, I look forward to it. Excuse me. Commander, we needto begin a full spectrographic analysis of the Dyson Sphere. How much danger from that star? Worse case. I realise that this visit is going to be difficult for some ofus, but I've examined his credentials, and everything seems to be inorder, so I think we should extend to him every courtesy. Ultimately, it is her decision to make, not ours. Mister Data,proceed with the mission as planned. Picard to Commander Riker. Mister Data, lock onto the scout ship. Take it in tow. Jeremy, she appears to be your mother, but she is not. Oppido bonum. Your Latin has improved. Thank you. Very well. Mister Worf, lock onto Major Rakal. Transport on mycommand. Do you want to be the prey forever? Thank you. How long can you stay? There's so much to talkabout. Mister La Forge? Good idea. I hope you learned that running away solves nothing. Oh. Come. Put the asteroid on the main viewscreen. How could the Romulans plant a bomb onboard a Klingon attack cruiser? They want us to find it. They would havekept it simple. No. How can we help you? Your computer had safety precautions. There is nothing youcould have touched that would have damaged your ship. Picard, Jean-Luc, Captain, Enterprise. Request controlaccess Starfleet ship USS Lantree, Isao Telaka commanding. No, I mean, why you are here on this ship? That would have definite advantages. The alliance with the Federation is not based on lies, K'mpec! Protect your secrets if you must, but you will not sacrifice these men. I'll be back before Jimmy Cuzzo arrives. I guarantee it will betaken care of. Just relax. Exit! Computer, exit! Data, try the other exit in thehall. Governor. Welcome aboard. I'm beaming you up. Is there anything we can do? Oh, I agree this is highly unlikely, but we have to proceedwith our current dilemma as though Q is powerless to prevent it, don'twe? Now there's a name we haven't heard for a while. I suppose it's an understandable progression. Computers makedecisions based on inputs and we humans give off a multitude of subtlesigns that communicate our emotions. Not worried exactly. This notion of admitting half of theirplanet to the Federation while leaving the other half out. Mister La Forge? The beast at Tanagra. Uzani, his army. Shaka when the wallsfell. Looks like the damage caused by an antimatter explosion. Go to yellow alert. Arm aft photon torpedoes. Place them onready status. Welcome to the Enterprise, Miss Rogers. I'm delighted to have you aboard. He'll never lose that respect. What's their condition? Computer, pause recording. Yes? Magnify. Warp eight, any heading. Engage. Now, Mister La Forge. You'll agree that we should quarantine the Lantree. Open the frequency. Two minutes, Mister La Forge. Picard out. No. Twenty five minutes? We're launching it now. With the Gatherer truce in effect, it certainly should be. Wewon't require a full ship's complement. I'm going to extendshore leave on the starbase to anyone who wants it. He has not regained consciousness. Nor I you. Inform them the transfer will take place shortly. Picard out. Mister Data, to the Bridge please. That's sufficient to get to the Bridge. Once there, eitherwe'll get control of the ship and shut off the auto-destruct, or wewon't. This vessel must not fall into hostile hands. I assume this is a simulation. You know, there's nothing about you I find tantalising. On thecontrary, I find you obvious and vulgar. I realise that. Sarek is dead. Put your foot where it didn't belong? Come. Computer, remove the forcefield. If you are human, which Iseriously doubt, you will have to work hard to earn our trust. Q Very well, Mister La Forge. You proceed with yourinvestigation, but I want you to report to Doctor Crusher for a bioscanat the start of day watch. Fifteen years ago, he assembled a team of scientists to expandthat research. They disappeared. Haven't been heard from since. Chaos. What we think is what happens. And you're continuing his work? It was an honour. He is a great man. Establish synchronous orbit. I suppose I could find a few hours to spend on the holodeck. I hear you've been promoted to supervisor of the Atlantisproject. Will! Will, I know why it's happening. I know what's causingthe anomaly. We have to go back. Data! There is a thriving colony on that planet. Rather than uprootthese people, may I offer a compromise? Open a channel to the Sutherland. How many devices do we think we're dealingwith, Mister Data? Commander Tomalak, as I'm sure you already know, we wereresponding to a warnings of Romulan incursions at Nelvana Three. Considering that they destroyed a Juhryan freighter less than aweek ago, I would say that your efforts are meeting with limitedsuccess. What is the price of that opportunity? Splendid. Q That will not be necessary, Admiral. Continue on into close parking orbit. Mister Worf, your service aboard theEnterprise has been exemplary. Until now. Very well. That sounds like an illogical philosophy. That's enough, Data. Have you been able to learn more specificsabout the Manheim project? Perhaps some answers at last. On screen. Now look, this is a simple ceremonial greeting, nothing more. All right? We have considered the possibility. Lieutenant Commander Data. Married? She's getting married? Thank you, Will. I never made that log entry, of course, but itstill leaves you with a duty to perform. That is not true. It's trying to communicate with us. A life form? Can you predict how long this has been in the cavern? That is an attitude I've found common among the best officersI've ever served with. You're not one of them yet, but you could be, ifyou work at it. RO We could grant you asylum, Hugh. Welcome to the Enterprise, Commander Riker. Computer, identify humanoid life form in biolab four. Number One, inform Karnas we'll be beaming down in less thanfive minutes. Mister Data. Nicely done. Picard to Bridge. What is the matter? If we can possibly avoid firing on it, I would hope it would beMARR Always? Mister Worf, get me the Sheliak. Picard to shuttlecraft. Identify yourself and return to theship immediately. Mister Worf, lock on with a tractor beam and returnit to the ship. Is it possible that this malfunction will affect the otherholodecks as well? How long will we be on impulse power? Yes, and you are not programmed to murder cowards. So if theywill not fight back, what will you do? Reply that the Enterprise isn't going anywhere, Lieutenant. In our travels, we have encountered many other creatures,perhaps even stranger-looking than ourselves. But we try to co-existpeacefully with them. What must I do? Masaka? On main viewer. Where do you want to go? Do you want to try to find those wholeft you here? Sure you don't want to try? It's very relaxing. We can find yousomething that will be quiet and gentle. I think that it's time I met Commander Sela. Two days ago, you were so upset about the Borg even being onthe ship that you tore my foil out of my hand. And now you're herequestioning whether it should be treated as the enemy. Masaka. Let's get back to the Bridge. Are they intentionally jamming our sensors? So there is a hope, but if you have an evacuation plan Commander Shelby, what is the status of out defencepreparations? Which control keys? Damn. Of course, you can't see. Ihat, the sign, give it to me. Are you saying that they're still alive? Thank you, Mister Data. It was thoughtful of you to inviteLwaxana Troi to be part of the Betazed delegation. Enemy? You mean the Kes. Well, Data, Shakespeare was witnessing the end of theRenaissance and the birth of the modern era, and Prospero finds himselfin a world where his powers are no longer needed. So, we see him hereabout to perform one final creative act before giving up his artforever. Guinan, I don't know why you are involved in this, but Only too well. Thank you, Counsellor. If I should need you further, I'll letyou know. Then I suppose I had better get a case. Oh, no. No. How can I accept this? We don't have it, Mister Lynch. Commander La Forge. I'm not very good. I want to be back at this asteroid at oh eight hundred hourstomorrow. Plan your search pattern accordingly. I'm sorry, but I have to report that our first attempt torestore the moon to its proper orbit has failed. Fine. Destroy yourselves. Mister Worf, end Red alert. And try to access a Federation timebase beacon. Let's see if we can find out how long we've been in thiscausality loop. You are excused, Doctor. No. You should proceed with your mission. Why not? Comment is invited. Counsellor? I see. Prophecies? There you are, Mister Tarses. Would you care for some lemon? Oh, you want me to lie? Dismissed. Q Well, how do you intend to free yourselves of this existencethat has so trapped your consciousness? Enterprise here. Human history is full of many similar legends. Acknowledged, Commander. Minister, we're here in friendship,hoping to provide assistance. Extraordinary. Admiral, can you give me any details? The weapons conversion, Lieutenant Burke? All right. Number One, those big clamps are part of theemergency system. If something goes wrong, they're designed to hold theturbolift in place. But it would seem that they're damaged. That I can't answer. The Bolians are maintaining an uneasytruce with the Moropa, are they not? I don't understand. I think you've got a great deal to learn from Starfleet. RO Like this hearing. Increase power to the shields. Hold us here. Your objection is noted, Mister Worf, but we are directlyresponsible for the death of the parent. We cannot simply wash ourhands of it now. Doctor, we will proceed at your discretion. Go to Red alert. That does not justify brutalising her, nor any of the othersyou have used. I appreciate your offer, DaiMon Bok. We would like you to beour guest here. What kind of problems? Origin. You, sir, you will explain your error and apologise, and praythat we can negotiate a peace we can all live with. Is that clear? I don't see that we have any choice. Mister Worf, will you hailthe Bre'el Four science station, Have you tried synaptic induction? It usually refers to the memories. Tell me, Counsellor, with regard to my lecture, what do youthink would provide greater clarity? A chronologicalstructure, or the division of each excavation's findings into variousreligious, sociological and environmental sub-groupings? And punish us as well, it would seem. Q When you're ready, coordinate with Mister Data. RO Bring them back. Now. Chief Herbert, what's going on? I've lost people under my command. People who were very dear tome. But never someone I've been in love with. And when I believed thatyou were dead, I just began to shut down. I didn't want to think orfeel. I was here in my quarters, and the only thing I could focus onwas my music, and how it would never again give me any joy. Then I sawyou standing on the transporter pad and I knew that I could never againput your life in jeopardy. The necklace. It broke. I saw it in the cargo freighter, on thefloor by the fire. I left it there. Now it's around your neck. It'swhole. How? Red alert. Unless he was distracted by something. He destroyed the biosphere of the planet after he had taken thesample. Klingons have got a very powerful sense of smell. If we couldduplicate Deanna's pheromones and then convince him she's no longer inSickbay, that she'd gone into some other part of the ship. Certainly. This way. Number One? What carried the Artemis Pagh, we're here to assist. Do youread me? On my way. Well, whether he wants us or not. DirectorMandl, unless you're absolutely refusing permission for us to land atyour station, prepare to receive our away team. That's not quite what I meant. Picard. Go ahead. Bridge to Commander La Forge. What's our status? Ensign, warp nine. Very soon after we combined we had learned much about eachother. A passion for exploration, for the unknown. We found we hadsimilar dreams, and it offered your Captain a way to realise thembeyond human expectations. Deck ten. I've been thinking about thefirst time I met Geordi La Forge. He was a young officer assigned topilot me on an inspection tour, and I made some off hand remark aboutthe shuttle's engine efficiency not being what it should. And the nextmorning I found that he'd stayed up all night refitting the fusioninitiators. Well, I knew then that I wanted him with me on my nextcommand. Have you decided what you're going to say about Ensign Ro? What is it? Thank you. The ship was controlled from the ground. Communication washandled through a subspace relay on board the vessel. It means to spy, to sneak. What threat? Is there anything else, Counsellor? Beverly, perhaps it would be best if you were to confineyourself to Sickbay until we arrive. Take us out of warp, Ensign. All stop. You're staring at me. The imaging logs? Are you suggesting that you have evidence theCardassians have tampered with the Array? That's not true. The technique of a desperate man. Who is that? Doctor, when such a diagnosis concerns a bridge officer, Iexpect a better explanation. No doubt you're right, Mister Data. However, forty five yearsago, I'm sure it linked in with the tunnels the Admiral remembers. Believe me, in the future the tables will be turned. Yes, gentlemen? The interval between radiation bursts. That you voluntarily confine yourself to your quarters, atleast until we haveunraveled this mystery. Would any of those apply here? What's that? Any life signs? I don't want them disrupting thisconference. I'm re-routing the secondary deuteriumsupply. Switching to manual control. I can understand them looking at a dying man's eyes, but thehowling? Go ahead, Doctor. Absolutely out of the question. The Prime Directive Lieutenant, report! Because I can assure you that will not go down well atStarfleet Academy. Mister Okona, you were welcomed aboard without any undueinvestigation. In turn it was assumed that you did not come under falsepretenses. It now seems that you may have done. Your help would be appreciated, Doctor. Mister Data. That doesn't sound like the man who came to me a year agofiercely determined to return home and to clear his father's name ordie trying. Isn't it time to confront the Council? To regain yourfamily name? Let the truth be known? Come on. The Academy must make you wait, that's true. But, when I reviewyour service to this ship, your crewmates, I cannot in all consciencemake you wait for the Academy. You see, Wesley, in my eyes you're anacting ensign in title only. I hereby grant you field promotion to fullEnsign, with all the commensurate responsibilities and privileges ofthat rank. Congratulations. You're dismissed. Will, the Master of Tarquin Hill designed ceramic objects thatwere three hundred years ahead of their time. All we know of him is thework. His name has never been discovered. This object is over twelvethousand years old. I certainly won't stop her, if she cares to claim that honour. Lieutenant La Forge. So that takes care of the why. Now, what can you do? Increase speed to warp eight point nine. We're not certain. It may be that there is some unusual effectproduced by the Ullians' telepathic activity. I'm going to talk tothem, and in the meantime, you're to stay here and recuperate. And ifyou remember anything at all about what happened, I want you to tell meimmediately. When we arrive at the pulsar, I shall require everyone attheir best. I know that I can rely on both of you. Tell me where you've hidden the Tox Uthat. Status report. But this is not the present I remember. You said nothing wouldchange. Q I see. Mister Data? Theorise. What could have caused such a catastrophicmalfunction? All of it. Not in the slightest. Except for his features, there is nothingabout him that I find familiar. Counsellor, I want you to stay withhim. He will be able to communicate with you before any on else. We all make mistakes. Q Picard to Commander Riker. How many more colonists do you haveto transport? Masaka is taking over my ship. I have these intense feelings of fear and panic. I feel as if Iwere being watched. I can't explain it. You're the woman he was talking about? That is remarkable. Why don't you play something? Oh no, no, there'll be plenty of time for that. We don'tarriving at Tilonus for another five days. And besides, if you backout, she'll come after me to play the part. What's this? A map of the ruins? I thought that I was the onlyreason you came to Tagus. Of course. Lasers can't even penetrate our navigation shields. Don't theyknow that? RIKER I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Under attack? There are four lights. And that's it? No other comment? Then you have no idea who might have done this. Well, do your best. Thank you. Hitler on the move. Roosevelt pressesCongress for British aid. DiMaggio streak reaches thirty seven? How long were we out? Destroy the tricorder. Number One. You must trust us. We wish only to return to our worlds. Wereyou abducted from Chalna? I would enjoy that tour. Caldos Colony is a most impressiveaccomplishment. I actually feel as if I'm in the Scottish Highlands. Oh, the Homeric Hymns. One of the root metaphors of our ownculture. Looks like a maintenance hatch to the installation. I'm pickingup three proximity sensors around it. Romulans. I improvised. With the enemy vessel coming in for the kill, Iordered a sensor bearing, and when it went into the return arc I hope not. RO Vash. Q Make it so. I think our lives just became a lot more complicated. Get himoff my Bridge. Several friends and I were on leave at Farspace StarbaseEarhart. It was little more than a galactic outpost in those days. Special operations on Celtris Three. That's what I have to find out. You're a man obsessed with whatyou do. Who knows what an obsessed man will do to keep going? Kill,perhaps? Are they pursuing us? I would be honoured. What scene? What's the last thing you remember? No. The evidence is too pronounced. I can't stay silent. Well, it's true, I have done my homework I have examined thefindings of every archaeological expedition conducted on the planetsurface. Excellent. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation StarshipEnterprise. It is urgent that you respond. I appreciate your offer, Lieutenant, but this is myresponsibility. I don't dance. Possibly. Just as we're checking it out. Progress, Number One? On screen. Perhaps we can learn more about these creatures by interpretingthe symbols and images of your dreams. Romulan vessel this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USSEnterprise. If you're looking for a more lenient commander, I don't thinkyou'll find one. He asks your forgiveness. This conflict was started by mistakeson both sides. Let's agree to end it here and now. No. I'm not willing to give them up. Go ahead, Number One. Admiral Haftel, Guinan. She runs Ten Forward. How is Lal doing? Prepare phasers and open a channel. This is not my time. I don't belong here. And if I do find it, what then? Who is that? One of your allies? I see. What would you say if I told you that I believed that Iwas capable of being very much more. The eruptions have stopped. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Starship Enterprise. court of fact! We humans know our past, even when we're ashamedof it. I recognise this court system as the one that agreed with thatline from Shakespeare. Kill all thelawyers. Q Mister Data, you are hereby assigned to Q for the remainder ofhis stay. You will escort him to Mister La Forge in Engineering. Counsellor? But didn't your researches indicate a thousand adjustments persecond would be required? With nothing from us in return? Would you care to dance? Or at least what fields you're not interested in. Tell me, how can I talk to her? From the surface? My time shifting. The answer does lie there, doesn't it. Now,tell me one thing. This anomaly we're looking for, will that destroyhumanity? Q Picard to Sickbay. Could it have been another hologram? Shut it off. I need you on the Bridge, Number One. How did this happen to you? Q? What is going on here? Where is the anomaly? Q If so, the question becomes how will they use that knowledge? Data, do you have any information touching this on any file? Are you saying that's what I'm going to have to do? How comforting, Number One. You have the Bridge, Number One. And broken your leg. Is Maques suggesting that your mother's metaconscious has beensomehow damaged? I'm sorry. I don't have that kind of money. Captain's log, supplemental. We have received wordfrom Commander Riker and Lieutenant Ro that the Maquis will beattacking the convoy as planned. Our ships have taken up position inthe Hugora Nebula to wait for them. Good luck. Beverly! We've met a few times. She's a formidable woman. Picard to Mister La Forge. Damn. Make it so. Could it be what's left of the Fleming? Did she personally form the government that so peacefully ruledthis planet for a millennium? Yes. Of course. Can you identify it? The Sonchi ceremony will take place in one hour aboard K'mpec'sship. Then tell me why Kushell of the planet Straleb is demanding thesame thing? Thank you. I'll tell them to be cautious. I wanted to say goodbye properly this time. I shall alwayspicture you here. How soon will you be ready to leave Acamar? Yes, I know, it's not a cure, There's nothing that can preventthe deterioration of the synaptic pathways. You think that I'm senile,that all this is just a delusion. I'm very pleased to hear that. Why wasn't I notified? That is simplistic. Mister Worf, open the lower band frequencies most commonly usedin the last century. You know everything I do, Will. Engage. Bridge to Engineering. Mister La Forge, why isn't myship Negative. Nothing goes out without specific orders from me. Hopefully the delay will be minimal. Acknowledged, Counsellor. He's on his way. Is there a problem? And a wonderful job you did of it, too. Well, later thisafternoon, we're going to finish the tour I promised you, starting withthe battle bridge. I'll see you at fourteen hundred hours. You have theBridge, Number One. + Can you use it to scan the interior of the anomaly? What kind of twisted pleasure does it give you to bring terrorinto their lives? Q Yamato, this is the Enterprise. Yamato, come in. On screen. Where exactly do you come from? Plot an intercept course, Ensign. Fire torpedoes. You were taking her to places that were inappropriate, evendangerous. I was wondering if you had any feelings about the OfficerExchange Programme initiated by Starfleet Command. What about that comm. panel? You said you damaged it when youwere cutting it out of the shuttle. Did you? You see, I find it hard tobelieve that you would destroy the one piece of equipment that couldget you out of here after seven years. And what was this really for? Tokeep me immobilised? Get him out of there! What is it, Doctor? No, Ian, but thank you for the invitation. May we arrange for your transport? Yes. Mister La Forge, can we follow them into the conduit? You and I need to have a little chat about that. Life signs? Data. Armus, we're finished dealing with you. He said that he had nowhere to go. Yes! Right. That's it. Punished? How? Starfleet is not a military organisation. Its purpose isexploration. Chorgan, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. Allright, let's focus their attention. Mister Worf, fire phasers. Agreed. Prepare your away team, Number One. Perhaps he can help us. What the Cardassians have or have not done is irrelevant. I was harsh with you because I wanted to assess you for a veryimportant mission. A mission that could put you in a situation thatwould be far more unnerving than a dressing-down by your commandingofficer. Do you smell a change? What? Perhaps you'd care to explain why we're here, Admiral. Mister Data, would it possible to saturate the asteroid withverteron particles that could mask the resonance signature and preventthe Romulans from detecting it? Professor, I think there are some things of which you should bemade aware. We don't know what the enemy needed, Doctor. Love? Fear? Hope? Any luck with the tricorder, Ensign? Theorise, Data. Give me some background. What is it? How are you feeling? It's not him, Will. I know that now. What I have to find out ishow this happened, and who or what is behind it. Picard to Bridge. Mister Worf, you're using our files on theKhitomer massacre as evidence against Duras' father? Did it work? Q Yes, sir, it is. I want you to send a team down there immediately. Find outwhat's going on. To protect you. Agreed. What about a shuttle? We could send it down through oneof these fissures. And in the hands of a con artist, fear can be used to motivateobedience, capitulation, the exploitation of innocent people. And thatis what I believe has happened here. I intend to prove that. I need tofind a loophole, some way of challenging the validity of this contract. Yes, Number One. Additional units? We have been contacted by the factions on Solais. They want torenew negotiations. You now request permission to beam down to the planet. Permission granted. You can accompany me while I try and resolve this. And you should know that whatever the cost, I will not allow them toexecute your son. Geordi, the Hera's last reported location was three hundredlight years away. How could it end up here? Doctor, you have a responsibility to this ship which goes All hands abandon ship. Repeat, all hands abandon Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise hasentered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We are the firstStarfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region. But Ardra must have purified the polluted water and air? He has tried every technical means at our disposal to reachthem. Sorry. We mean you no harm. Do you believe me? Tallera is right. But what she's not telling you is that thoseartefacts she's holding are part of an incredibly powerful weapon. There's no reward waiting for you down on the surface. As soon as she'sgot those artefacts, she'll leave you behind to be captured byStarfleet. Lutan, you have granted us hospitality and the safety of yourCentreplace]. The gifts you give us are rare and precious. We thankyou. And now, according with the customs of your ancestors, whom wehonour and respect, I am here in peace to ask for the return ofLieutenant Yar. Back us off, Ensign. Nice and slow. RO Is it part of a Romulan plot, a ploy to start a war? Q Full about, one quarter impulse. Take us out of here. You know him? Targeted for what? By whom? Come. What happened? Injury report, Doctor? What happened to the shuttlecraft, Number One? If you're here to persuade me not to use the invasive programme. If you have something to say, I'm listening. Mister Data? We know you've been on this ship for some time now, and thatyou're posing as Clara's friend, and that you've been threatening her. We can only assume that there is some connection between yourself andthe life forms attacking this ship. You're obviously an intelligentbeing. There's no reason to hide from us. Talk to us. Or can you onlycommunicate by threatening a small child? And when I looked down into the street, Iactually saw automobiles! My mind is barely working. Maintain that. What the hell happened? Beverly, Wesley's alive and he's well. Reverse course. Take us back to Federation territory, warp six. Engage. An alien presence? What I said, DaiMon Tarr, is I'm a little dizzy, Number One, but none the worse. I'm onmy way. Please inform the Academy, Mister Worf, and send my regards toSuperintendant Brand. There is something to be said for a more scientific approach. For these negotiations to succeed I must be a mediator, not anenforcer. You have the Bridge, Number One. Brull. I think it's time that you and I had a talk with Maques. Come on, Beverly, we've got to get out of here. If you're here, the entire crew must know. Do not continue to enlist the cooperation of Lieutenant Worf. Go ahead, Commander. Five hundred years ago, military officers would upend a drum onthe battlefield sit at it and dispense summary justice. Decisions werequick, punishments severe, appeals denied. Those who came to a drumheadwere doomed. Well, thank you, Mister Data. Procedures require that weinvestigate. Recall the bridge crew and set in a course. In a few hours, I'll be turning him over to the Angosians, andI'll be happy to do it. This starship's mission is to seek out new life and that isexactly what Commander Data is doing, under my guidance. Yes, I am. Four sleeping areas. That implies we may be joined by anothercaptive. But you don't deny it. On our way. All right. Very good. Fine. I'll listen. Believe me, it would give me great pleasure, but there isnothing I can do. You know exactly what I mean. What? The shoot-out between the bellboy and Mickey D. What is the boy doing here? No doubt. On screen. Admiral Jarok has provided me with thelocations, strengths and tactical plans of the Romulan fleet. Mister La Forge, he is prepared to give you data regarding engines,weapons and the cloaking systems of the warbird classstarship. But I believe his experience as a field commander will bemore valuable for its strategic sense than in the technical areas. First we've got to get the ship under control. Let's go to theBridge. Mister Data, is the wave affecting our warp drive? Follow them in, Mister Crusher. Red Alert. Mister Worf, armphoton torpedoes. We're just keep getting deeper and deeper in, aren't we? He's aware of me. And I 'was looking forward to seeing the Epsilon Pulsar Clusterfor myself. I will certainly grant you asylum, when you have been absolvedof this crime. I'm sorry, whom did you say? Quick, into the forest. Mister Worf. That's an order. The minute they believe that we won't accept their compensationfor the children, they'll break off the discussion, they'll disappearbehind their shield, locking us out and the children in forever. That'swhy I've got to keep them talking. I said you're not doing this. Fifteen thousand! I had to get everyone's attention. It was the quickest way. This is the Captain. This is not a drill. It seems that in this place,the world of the physical universe and the world of ideas is somehowintermixed. What we think Yes, sir. Karnas was largely responsible for the planet'sunification and peace. Why should he now be unable to deal with thisrebellious faction? No, Will, we can't! We have to save humanity. I understand. We are also explorers. We mean no harm to anyother living creature. I'm asking that you keep an eye on your son during all of this,Doctor. Guinan? I'm on my way to Engineering. Join me. You must understand, Number One Security to Ten Forward. Make it so. Let's consider your thoughts. You call us savages and yet youknew those people down there would be killed. It is your conduct thatis uncivilised. Picard to the Bridge I'm simply considering all possibilities. For that information you'll have to ask him. I need to speak with you. You took some unnecessary personal risks, Number One. Assemble an away team. The manifest. Stand down red alert. The installation should be about threehundred metres this way. Energise. Set course three one markseven three. Present minimalaspect. Ready warp one,optimal spread on simulatedtorpedoes. Possibly. But you are Borg. Your goal is not to destroy but to assimilateus into the collective. The ship's computer My pleasure. Good. I'm glad we've got that straightened out. Resume. if she hadn't lost her rank as a result of that incident atGaron Four, I think she would've made Lieutenant Commander by now. There is a structure of some kind. Some energy readings abouttwo kilometres south of here. Voval, I'm going to try to find help. Doyou understand? Now, try to stay conscious and don't leave the shuttle. There's some kind of plasma energy out on the surface. I'll be back assoon as I can. Countess, you must understand that I am responsible for morethan one thousand lives. Excellent. Ready? Make it so. Then why? I realise that. But it's safer for all concerned to leave onebehind. Please. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. The holodeck makes excellent use offinite space. Report. Number One? It said you killed some of them. I need to know how. How's our mediator. Because of your recent training, because you're Bajoran, andbecause of your past troubles with Starfleet gives you a certaincredibility. RO No. Kevin does. He's the cause. At first I couldn't understand whyyour house survived the holocaust when the others hadn't. Then it occurred to me. It had been destroyed. That dwelling, where youserved me tea, where you danced your waltzes, is a reproduction. Realto the touch but capable of being created, destroyed, and created. Allon a whim. Your point, Mister La Forge? You said modern rite. How was the ritual performed in the past? Let me see. This way. I am not encouraging him. If you weren't so narrow minded, ifyou allowed him to see the world as it really is Q, what is it you really want? Q Come. What the devil is going on? On your feet, Lieutenant. Actually, no. It was Ensign Ro's idea but I fully endorsed it. I suspected that something like this might occur. Data launched that probe. Contact Gowron's ship. Tell him to meet us aboard K'mpec'svessel. Ambassador, meet me in Transporter room six in an hour. We willbegin the ceremony a little late. Mister Worf. Counsellor, anything would be helpful. Proceed, Doctor. Perhaps it was a little too non-relevant. But if you really areinterested in small talk, then you should keep your eye on CommanderHutchinson at the reception this afternoon. He's a master. Picard here. A beacon? It's the least I can do. I'm afraid I require an explanation, Ambassador. Filling the primary coolant tanks requires an open interlockbut that can only be performed in a maintenance bay. Is there any otherreason for opening the valve? Did he have anything to say about this attack? Can we switch the input? Aceton assimilators? May I ask, Ambassador, what has this to do with us? I see your point. My apologies. Life signs? Hail the vessel. Is it possible he could have been abducted? Yes, yes. Well, Lutan, what do you want? Do not answer. It is the rule of the Mek'ba that evidence bepresented in open council. The intelligence that was formed on the Enterprise didn't justcome out of the ship's systems. It came from us. From our missionrecords, personal logs, holodeck programs, our fantasies. Now, if ourexperiences with the Enterprise have been honourable, can't we trustthat the sum of those experiences will be the same? <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. We'll let them know our peaceful intention. Open hailingfrequencies, Lieutenant Yar. I would like to leave Commander Riker to assist in your searchfor Doctor Crusher. There must be many ways we can be tested. We have a longmission ahead of us. Q How so? Are there others like you there? Well, call it an extended loan. Since you lost your ship savingours, it seemed only fair. You can hardly believe this will convince anyone. Well, perhaps you would clarify it for me. I'm trying, but the needed ship will not be available for threeweeks. Is that? Q Ensign T'Su? T'SU Ship's status? Doctor. Yes, we heard that, Number One. We'll try and track it downfrom here. Engage. Lieutenant Worf, will you go to Ten forward and keep an eye onData? Don't interfere with his actions unless you hear otherwise fromme. Mister Data, run a full diagnostic to make sure the wormholedidn't permanently damage the sensors. Cheat fate? Perhaps we can't, Mister Data. But at least we cangive it a try. Picard to Bridge. Set a course for the Camor system, warp five. Redblock? I'll keep it in mind. Thank you for helping me. How can we be sure we can get them out of you? Number One, light. You said you had responsibilities. Whatexactly did you mean? Wouldn't that be a little obvious, Admiral? Try, Mister La Forge. Everything under control, Ensign Crusher? Am I a prisoner here? I feel fine. Everything seems a little smaller. RO JR Why? What can I do for you, Number One? Yes, but it's a correct assessment. Thank you, Doctor. Goodbye, Jono. How do you do. I'm looking forward very much to meeting withthe Premier of Iyar. There will be a reception held in your honour whenyou will meet the rest of my senior staff. I, of course, shall be on myway to your home world, but I shall be leaving you in the safe hands ofmy most experienced officers. Lieutenant Worf, of the Klingon Empire,is my head of Security. He will be in charge of your safety whileyou're on board. Counsellor Deanna Troi of the planet Betazed will beyour personal liaison office, Ambassador Loquel. Your point, Counsellor? Oh, please don't let me keep up from doing your duty. Cargo? Are those people crazy? What could possibly be soimportant? Very well. Let's sample the local cuisine, shall we? Shields up. Please keep working at it. We may need it soon. Mister Data, perhaps you had better re-examine the Array. Seeif you can find any evidence to support Mister Worf's claims. A creature against whom we seem to have no defence. Number One? Good luck, Number One. In a manner of speaking. I'll relieve you at zero three zero zero. Then do so, and let the Bridge know that all is well down here. One quarter impulse, engage. Not necessarily. This could be created by volcanic activity. Lava flows. These walls are dry, Mister Crusher, do you have anymoisture reading? And what is to guarantee that if they go back they willsucceed? Every instinct tells me this is wrong, it is dangerous, it isfutile. Are you picking up any readings from Melona? No. No theories, no half answers. Yes or no? Excessive honesty can be disastrous, particularly in acommander. Distress signal? And when did I learn to play it? Transfer helm to Engineering, Geordi. Hail them, Mister Worf. There was no mention of an escort. Request a security clearancecode. Centuries ago, when laboratory animals were used forexperiments, scientists would sometimes become attached to thecreatures. This would a problem if the experiment involved killingthem. I would suggest that you unattach yourself from the Borg, MisterLa Forge. Hold this position. Counsellor, if I were to leave theEnterprise, would its attention still be focused on me? Mister Worf, this starship operates best when my officers sharewith me what is their minds. Mister Dirgo, I think it would be wiser Come. Indeed? Would you mind telling me what has happened? There is an emergency. We need warp drive. How long? Data, can we try again? Very good. Tea, Earl Grey. Hot. I thought I'd take some light reading in case I got bored. If I leave town, the town leaves with me. I get the feelingyour friend doesn't like me. I'm not a hero. I'm not sure that I can. Nothing. Full scan, Mister Data. And then? I have no doubt, however, that they will bolt if something goeswrong in the discussion. Chief Investigator, we are perfectly willing to cooperate withyou, but But I don't understand. I thought all the alien artefacts haddisappeared from the Enterprise. Is the Enterprise at risk? Understood. And I'll see you in a few minutes. We have developed new defence capabilities since our lastmeeting and we are prepared to use them if you do not withdraw fromFederation space. Engineering? Join La Forge down below in Engineering, NumberOne. He was not wounded in the mishap, but as a representative ofthe Federation, I require an explanation. Why has this child been heldin your custody for so many years? You're on board the starship Enterprise. Can you identify them? RO You heard me. You say that as if you think that's what we all see. Where is it coming from? Mister Data, see to it that the replicators provide a blanketfor every man, woman and child before nightfall. Who are you? We're on our way. Make it so. Stop your descent. Prepare to disengage theinterface. What is the problem? Yes. Reverse power, full stop. Mister Data, your analysis? Mister Crusher, report to the Bridge. No, please, I'm sure it will all come back to me. When the moment came to make a decision, you made the rightone. You chose to tell the truth and face the consequences. So long asyou can still do that, then you deserve to wear that uniform. And Iwill still be proud to have you as my First Officer. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Lieutenant, you may wait outside. Yes. What is emanating here is having repercussions light yearsaway, maybe even further. I was curious. I meant no harm. Engineering and programming. Yes, you have said that. Commander, you have devoted your life to the study of cybernetics ingeneral? Bridge to Engineering. Mister La Forge, what's your status? More is stronger. Captain's log, supplemental. We have regainedvisual contact with the lab, but our attempts to restore communicationwith this microbrain, as we have come to call it, has beenunsuccessful. One thing that is certain, however. This life form hasdeclared war on us. Mister Worf, everything is all right. Unidentified freighter, this is the Enterprise. May we beof assistance? On screen. Magnify. I'm asking you. That is an order, Counsellor. My ship's company and I are certain of your gentle wisdom inthat. I knew of him. He was teaching at the University when I was inParis, but I didn't have the pleasure. I must change. Number One,inform me half an hour before we reach those co-ordinates. Keep tryingto determine if the time distortion was specifically located on theEnterprise. Eighteen years? Mister La Forge, move us in closer. This is the Captain. Wewill be pushing the shields to the limit, but we are getting asplendid view of this phenomenon. Come. Ambassador T'Pel. Perhaps, but it's of value to me nonetheless. Have you located the science team, Number One? Ensign, bring us to bearing oh three oh mark five. You did not think so when it worked in your favour. On screen. Helm, take us within transporter range. We're going to beamthem aboard directly onto the Bridge. Then it appears, for reasons unknown, someone has gone to greatpains to erase all traces of this man. Doctor. Enough. Very well. Complete your mission. But remember, this isFederation territory, Gul Evek, and until that changes, these peopleare under my jurisdiction and I will protect them. On the contrary. I think that synthehol heightens one'sappreciation for the genuine article. To all Maquis ships. Call off your attack or we will be forcedto engage you. It's really quite exciting, actually, if you understand thepotential of exploring a new world on our own planet. We may be on a road that has no turns. Yes. This is their preferred way of space travel. What are you suggesting, Lieutenant? I've been thinking about what you said the other day, and youknow, I think you were right. I had convinced myself that Jason didn'twant me to reach out to him. Go ahead, Chief. Would you care to be shown to your quarters? From the moment they agreed to give them the felicium, my handswere tied. It seems that Mrs Troi is our acting ambassador of goodwill fortoday. Follow up on it, Mister Data. Input your observations into theUniversal Translator. Thank you. Set a course to intercept. Mister Worf, dispatch a subspace message to Admiral Hanson. Wehave engaged the Borg. Doctor? I take it you find no glitch at all in this planet, however? You admit the truth and yet expect him to accept punishment? What does this say of an Empire who holds honour so dear? How did they leave? And we report our observations how? To whom? Can you get us back? We're not hunters, Doctor. Nor is it our role to exact revenge. Yes, of course. The meeting is adjourned. Well, we can't go back and we can't stay here. We've got tokeep going for the mountains. No matter what is waiting there. Maintain Yellow Alert. Tell me, Doctor, how do we kill them? The external power is cut off. All hands, abandon ship! Repeat, all hands abandon Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise hasentered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We are the firstStarfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region. Well, here's to the class of 'twenty seven. Damn it, I was just trying to. Look, there are larger concernshere. What you don't understand is that Status, Mister Data? That seems rather risky, Doctor. He's come up with something that may give us a chance, if weagree to stay out of it. He proposes to turn total control of the shipover to the computer because it is capable of making quickeradjustments than any human being. Do it. RO No, stop, everyone. Who are you? Lantree, this is the Enterprise. Captain Telaka, this is Picardof the Enterprise. Do you read me? Then the purpose of the ship's intelligence was simply to bringthis life form into being. Thank you. We accept your gracious offer. Why angry? Why were you angry at me, Wesley? Were you angry atme because I was the one who told you your father was dead? What kind of cargo? Bring us within range of the fragment,Ensign. Where's Voval? Isn't it convenient that he arrived momentsafter you left? That he insisted that I come here to look for you? ThatI find you, here on the ledge, ready to jump? That's very good timing,don't you think? I don't want anyone else going in alone. They're out of options. Do it! No, it's one programme among thousands. I just hope this forcefield has enough energy to trigger the pulse. Yes, it's possible. But if that is an archive from some ancientcivilisation, we should allow it to do so. But we must be careful. Mister Worf, will you keep an eye on the sensors. If the ship is in anydanger, I want you to sever the connection immediately. Commander Riker. On my signal, we willgamma-irradiate all computer systems throughout the Enterprise. Let'sput an end to this conflict. What kind of questions did he have for you,Number One? My compliments, Admiral Gromek. Would you care to comment privately how youread any of this? I'll catch up with you there. I was what? I tell you, Deanna, for atelepath, your mother's accuracy leaves much to be desired. Captain, if you will let these people go, I'll order the Bridgeto follow your instructions. The side effects of the transport? I wish I could say I did. Increase magnification by ten. By onehundred. Well, we have to find some way of staying unfrozen. Mister LaForge, what about a subspace forcefield like the one we used on DevidiaTwo? Could something like that protect us from the effects of thetemporal fragment? Unless he were forced to. But you needed his help at the concert. Or is there possiblysome other logical explanation for what happened that night? Why do you need my help in this? Go ahead, Mister Data. Yes, go ahead, Ensign. Well, whoever they are, and however they survived, we've got toget them off the planet. They're almost identical. How do you explain that? Well, that will be just fine. Mister Worf? Yes, I've heard, Data, and I would be delighted to offer anyadvice I can on understanding women. When as I have some, I'll let youknow. Second Officer's personal log, stardate 44935.6. After conferring with my colleagues regarding the nature of romanticlove in general, and my own situation in particular, I have reached adecision. It would be inappropriate. Nelvana Three, Admiral. No base, no weapons, no sign of anylife at all. Perhaps they were brought here by whoever created thatmake-believe world down there. It's possible they didn't know howfragile the humans aboard actually were. Only one of them survived. We're talking about restoring the past. Yes, Doctor? It's hard to believe that he could rise to the rank of SenateProconsul without the support of the Romulan traditionalists. Lieutenant, control your emotions. Please, open hailingfrequencies. Anti-time? Yes, but you endangered this vessel in which we all travel. Younearly killed a crewmember. Report. When the Yamato was probed, where was she? The Enterprise has been caught in temporal causality loop, andI suspect that something similar may have happened to you. No, I can't do that either. I've failed to get through to you, haven't I? Despite all myefforts. Nobody's perfect, Doctor, butCRUSHER The Bringloidi. Well, I was a young Starfleet officer, not many years olderthan you are now. Top of my Academy Class. Green as hell. And oh, sococky. Too cocky, as it turned out. Commander Riker. Geordi? They've requested assistance as soon as Argh! Make it so. Captain's log, stardate 47457.1. We have beentrapped inside the asteroid for over eight hours. Mister Data andCommander La Forge inform me that they are nearly ready to engage thecloak. And Commander Riker is the only one who cantell us. Beam him directly here onto the Bridge I know it's difficult operating in the dark, but right now Idon't think I have any other choice. So the only way out is by the transporter. Or the dimensionaljump. A very dangerous piece. Were you really going to give this tothe DaystromInstitute? How long to rendezvous, Mister Crusher? As a matter of fact, they are. I spoke with your aide,Commander Wrightwell, and he said that you were particularly fond ofthem. All right, who will replace you? We're bringing you in. Status report. All I'm saying is that you removed something which clearly didnot belong to you. They're not going to get away with it this time. Picard toEngineering. Transfer auxiliary and emergency power to the impulseengines. The cardiac replacement procedure. It has a very low mortalityrate. Two point four percent. Your son? My grandson. It breaks my heart. He deserves a rich, full life,and he's not going to get one. You should read more history, Ensign. Acknowledged. If it's energy that you want, we have other waysof providing it. You needn't destroy us. And that's what Troi asked me to do. But why? Ten Forward, ifyou could be more specific about our intended destination Because no one has gone this fast. Reverse engines. Probes? The probes. Launch? I launch the probes? But why? What's good will that do? Transporter room three, lock on theexplosive device and energise. It's true, I don't fully understand Talarians. But you are notTalarian. Compliments on that, Doctor. Any questions? Starfleet people are trained to render aid and assistance whenever Q Agreed. We will send you home to your wet sand. Picard toRiker. Bring up the lights in the lab, just a bit. Are youbetter? Lieutenant. All stop. This sharing of thoughts and feelings is quite compelling. No. We are very pleased with the operation of the Enterprise. Perhaps it's a symptom of fatigue. We've all been inflicted onetime or another with that melody that won't go away. Yes. It's the first time in almost twenty years. When did this start? What is it you want? We mean you no harm. Do you understand me? Q Thirty seven through thirty nine. Allow us safe passage and I will protect your right to privacyto the best of my ability. We will never tell anyone of your existence. What do you think of the Enterprise D? Keep me informed, Lieutenant. I'll present my compliments to the crew. Oh yes, Number One,about that Horga'hn you requested. Of course you were, DaiMon. But you're still holding LwaxanaTroi. Data! I'm not talking about parenting. I am talking about theextraordinary consequences of creating new life. Are they a lifeform? Can you identify it, Mister Data? Maintain an open channel. For three years, since stardate 41124. Yes. Look, this is not an order, it's a request and it's onewhich you must feel perfectly free to decline. You see, one of the mostimportant things in a person's life is to feel useful. Now, MisterScott is a Starfleet officer and I would like him to feel useful again. It has declared a state of war and we are on the defensive. Wehave no control over our Medical Lab nor our computer. At this momentit has the power to destroy this ship and everybody on it. I need yourhelp. No, Mister Data. I need you on the Bridge with me. There ismuch to be done. We have less than forty eight hours to prevent a war. Or perhaps to start one. This will depend on establishing the truth of Thank you. That was the missing part. Lieutenant Yar, rig mainphaser banks to deliver an energy beam. Engineering. You see, I'm not convinced the boy has been abused, Doctor. I've talked with the father, and if I am any judge of character, Iwould say that he deeply cares for the boy's welfare. Full stop. What happened? What's the total? Excuse me. I envy your strength of will. Doctor Crusher has been keepingme informed of your progress. It's quite extraordinary. But we must have something in common. We communicate. Ginger tea with honey, eighty degrees Celsius. Jono. Any progress, Mister La Forge? Mister La Forge. Not we, Number One. I want you and the others to stay hereuntil I return. Report, MisterData. Mister Worf, will you accompany me to the Transporter Room? Youhave the Bridge, Number One. Before we leave, I ask you one more time to come to the ship. For your own safety. In light of your telepathic abilities, it raises the question. Masaka. Then what's going on here. Why are we risking our lives takingthese artefacts? Who wants them? Is hereby nullified. I don't want your help, your advice, yourfavours or for that matter, you. Do you understand? Once and for all! Q Just a few moments. You saw the Admiral on the Enterprise whenhe was en route to Mordan? Mister Worf, villains who wear twirl their moustaches are easyto spot. Those who clothe themselves in good deeds are wellcamouflaged. What? Maintain an open frequency, Mister Data. Make it so, Mister Data. The most dangerous animal is a mother protecting her young. Ensign Crusher and I will rendezvous with you on your returnfrom the Epsilon Pulsar Cluster. Yes? We don't have time for this. The Pasteur's core is going tobreach. In the world of fact, probably not. However, in literature,criminal detection can be a fascinating exercise. The immortal SherlockHolmes would have an interesting view of our mystery, I believe. Isn't there something else you have to do? A toast to the success of the trade conference, Reittan. I mustadmit, I had some doubts when you invited the Ferengi. I'm so sorry. Ceremonial, and deceptively primitive. Only an advancedtechnological society could have built that object out there. Theseartefacts played a ritualistic role in that society, I think. All stop. I don't want to order you. But I ask you. I beg you tovolunteer. No. I regret that I gave it up. It used to please my mother. But I didn't like performing in front of an audience. My away team is unable to leave the surface because of thestorms. Then I can only assure you that I will deal with any challengeaccording to Klingon law. You've not even met him. Oh, of course. Enterprise to Romulan vessel. We are en route to your position. The point, Mister Odell. I'm aware of that, Number One. Proceed. Agreed. Collect your samples, Mister La Forge. We'll proceedwith caution. Dismissed. I'm concerned that he may try to take Jason. Is there any waywe can protect him? Oh, they'll negotiate, or they'll call it that. They've takenwhat they want. Now they'll rationalise it by throwing us some sort ofbone. Stand by. Are we within sensor range of thenebula? Worf is not gone. The family you served needs you again. I'll start an investigation immediately. Thank you, MisterCrusher. Come. And my understanding is these men areprogrammed to survive. Is that correct? Yes, well, he's evidently done more than hold together. He'sthe indispensable man. The Federation's finest specialist incommunication with unknown life forms. I will not be coerced. Is everyone else all right? Lieutenant Hickman, you must do what I tell you. Reduce yourvelocity and bring your craft to a positive pitch of twenty degrees,now. I want that point one percent. Data, what happened? I think I deliberately avoided speakingwith the Borg because I didn't want anything to get in the way of ourplan. But now that I have, he seems to be a fully realised individual. He haseven accepted me as Picard, Captain of this ship, and not as Locutus. Yes, sir. As if it's something Q is doing to trickus? Over here. I've asked the Counsellor to join us in this meeting. May I introduce our new First Officer, Commander William Riker. Commander Riker, this is our ship's Counsellor, Deanna Troi. Is there a physiological cause? Number One, you have the Bridge. Put it to the wall, Mister La Forge. Perhaps it would help if you gave us some idea of what we'redealing with on Turkana Four. The last information describes a colonyin almost complete disarray. Doctor, if at all possible, we will continue this mission asplanned. She didn't. The files were deleted, by your mother, almostthirty years ago. Oh, really? Not as a wedding present for Sir Guy? Agreed. I've been thinking about my conversation with Q. Headmitted that he was responsible for my shifting through time. Now itoccurred to me that he might be giving me a chance somehow to savehumanity. How long until we reach the Fleming? And I have allowed it to go off on its merry way. You've injected me with drugs. Surely you must realise thatI've already answered truthfully every question you've put to me. Obstructing him? Then it's not yet certain. He's not yetcommitted. Q That was Ensign WesleyCrusher. The uniqueness of this presentation provoked this inadvertentbreach in protocol. No insult was intended. Mister Worf, put a tractor beam on that probe. Determine ifit's safe to beam it aboard. I want to know where it came from. MisterData, see if there is any mention of a Jason Vigo in Federationrecords. You might start with Miranda Vigo. She was born on New Gaulabout fifty years ago. At all costs. My feelings toward Vash are irrelevant. I would attempt to saveany innocent life, as you well know. Q Is everyone all right? RO JR Clearly, we still possess certain skills. It would seem we knowhow to operate this ship. But our identities have somehow been erasedor suppressed. Now, at the risk of being rude. Q Damn you!  PICARD No, it's not that. Or is it? Ensign, lay in a course to the next one, three quartersimpulse. We're not qualified to be your judges. We have no law to fityour crime. You're free to return to the planet and to make Rishon liveagain. And Jalad. At Tanagra. Darmok and Jalad on the ocean. Destroyed, deliberately, after the crash. Mister La Forge, make certain that we're still picking up thegamma radiation pattern of the Entity. More familiarity with our own mythology might help us to relateto theirs. The Tamarian was willing to risk all of us just for the hopeof communication, connection. Now the door is open between our peoples. That commitment meant more to him than his own life. Thank you, NumberOne. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Please, sit down. Understood. How many are there? Can you climb up? yes. Absolutely. That's why we're out here. Q Mister Crusher, scan for a class-M environment. It's part of being human, Jono. But, as deeply as you can feelhurt, you can also feel joy. We will not fire on them, Electorine. And then you'll discover that we're telling the truth. Have you had any success, Mister Data? Data, what are you doing? How long before you have it in position? The Romulan ship will reach us within the hour. If our patientdies it may be just the excuse the Romulan commander needs to start anincident. The death of a Romulan officer at the hands of theFederation. Think of it. Yes. Do you have any idea what might have taken him to Romulus? Chief Inspector, we've watched the eventsreplayed over and over again and I am impressed, and admittedlydismayed by the body of evidence against Commander Riker. But isn't itremarkable that with all the witnesses, all the different points ofview of the events aboard the space station, we haven't seen whatreally happened? What? I'd like to see her now. A few hours. If it looks like Cardassians, I'll contact youimmediately. I thought you deserved that much. Cold. Computer, begin playback from the first measure. What? Doctor? Go ahead, Geordi. I don't want excuses, Number One. I want answers! I'm sorry. Hewas in this room, Will. I could have rid the Federation of a mortalthreat, and I let him go. No sign of others? Did they attack the Yamato? I will not be coerced. Computer, freeze programme. Clear. Computer, this still isn'tright. One kind of violence is being substituted for another. Reconfigure. Where has he gone? Tell him I'm looking forward to it. I will be with Counsellor TroiPICARD We are not invaders. We are explorers. Here. You do not leave this ship withoutauthorisation. RO Talk to him, Worf. Hello. It's good to see you again. What brings you to theBridge? It is our procedure, Ensign, to notify command of anypossibility of danger to the ship. The decision is not yours. Do youunderstand? Come. Was his father a traitor? Hey, hey! You stay put. I'm on my way, Number One. Ensign, bring us around ninety degrees tostarboard. No, no. I want to go over this again. You've seen your mission briefing? There's so much I wanted to tell you. The Academy, there'ssomeone, someone who meant a great deal to me. He's been there forever. Someone you must get to know. His name is Boothby. Now, you tell himthat you and I were friends. Now, when I was there, he helped me. Listen to him. I'm also a bit troubled by it describingyou as imperfect. Beverly. He's fine. Counsellor, how long will this behaviour last? What is it? What's happening? Professor. Mister La Forge, is there any way that the Enterprise couldcoax that satellite Er, yes, a long time. I have a number of questions for you. Nonsense. We programme an appropriately docile steed But what if she doesn't want that future? It must be herdecision. Q If we can boost the output field, I might be able to send adistress signal. Something seems to be wrong with it. You have many enemies? Deanna, we all went into this with the best intentions. Did you sense something from any of us at that time? Anyunusual emotion? Strange? In what way? Non-human? Artificial? All right. You and Data beam down. Locate the power source ofthat shield. Knock it out. I'll delay the Aldeans until you're ready. Eight? Good. Let's go. DaiMon, due to the delicate nature of these negotiations, allparties have agreed that one representative would suffice. Now I willbe happy to provide your consuls with accommodations and you may havemy chair. Respond on the same frequency. Computer, tell me, is theprogrammestill running? He lied to you so that you would help him in his plan. TheEnterprise is closing in on your position. If you let the two of us go,they won't attack you. Starbase Montgomery is sending a civilian advisor on board tobrief you on the Ares's mission. Ambassador, it's clear you're in pain. You can't get throughthe next hours without help. It's not a person, damn it, it's a Borg! Even then there's no guarantee that we'll find a suitableplanet. We'd be happy to. No. This is for your benefit. Come. You're killing him. He won't survive another session. Tell us what you need, Doctor. Merde. Yes, I heard about the incident with Geordi. What? You are trifling with the primal instincts of our species. Imust warn you that human parents are quite willing to die for theirchildren. You asked for me. Not really. Only to students of archaeology such as myself. Though I did have to hand over a bottle of very old Saurian brandy forit. What lights? Who authorised a launch? Admiral Necheyev, welcome aboard the Enterprise. Mister Data, contact the Enterprise. Tell Commander Riker tomeet us at the rendezvous point as soon as possible. Have him scan theregion for temporal anomalies. They don't have to answer. They just have to listen. Sheliakvessel, you will have to get past me to get at the colony on Tau CygnaFive. What configuration? And Mister Worf, the Bridge wouldn't be the same without you. Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Turbolift Control, do you read? This is the Captain. GeordiPICARD What does this mean? What are you saying? If you are who you say you are, then you have nothing to lose. What about his mother? Lay in a standard search pattern. No! The challenge is unequivocally refused! I suppose this means I can look forward to a week of continualharassment on this subject? I admit, I've been feeling a littlefatigued. In one hour, DaiMon Bok. End transmission. You echo another noteworthy commander in a similarcircumstances, Number One. A countryman of yours, George ArmstrongCuster when his Seventh Cavalry arrived at the Little Big Horn. Ready to receive. Put this on main viewer. Perhaps prevent one. This ship has a mission to carry out. Engage tractor. If this is the Borg, it would indicate they have a source ofpower far superior to our own. Lieutenant, why didn't you contact Starfleet? Let them knowwhat happened on board the station? Resume original course and speed. I'm sorry, Rivan, but this was necessary. Do you know what thatis? Excuse me. You've opened the hearing to spectators? Take every precaution to protect the ship's vital areas. If wehaven't identified the source before the time interval, we'll leaveorbit. If you perceive any further danger, advise me immediately. Get me Groppler Zorn. And continue universal greetings on allfrequencies. Any indication of the source? Just not overly thrilled at the prospect of having my innardsbecoming the subject of Starfleet gossip. Trying to make my history unfold in a way other than it alreadyhas, eh, Professor? Fire. Marie. To freedom. Report, Mister La Forge. And so the earlier probe was responsible for the Yamato'sdestruction? Please transmit coordinates for immediate transport. Data, you are seeking to achieve what only your own creator hasbeen able to achieve. To make another functioning, sentient, android. To make another Data. Nothing. I was no hero, Wesley. I was an undisciplined,loud-mouthed, opinionated young man who was way out of his league. Ilearned a very hard, very painful lesson that day, but I learned itwell. I hope you never have to learn it the same way. Care for anothersandwich? We could find some other quarters. What help? Q Perhaps we could So it's true. We have no choice but to try. Perhaps you've got some sort of fast growth strain. Answer affirmative. Lieutenant La Forge, lay in the course. Projection. On my order, Mister Data, Mister La Forge. Engage. Yes, you might. But that does not alter your duty to me and tothis ship. Now, do you know how to formulate a premise? Let's see if anyone's out there. Mister Worf, attempt a widerange sensor sweep. But not necessarily to you. Explanation, Mister Data. Yes, Number One? He may not be as useful as you think, if this is the same Rikerthat I've heard about. We should tell Sarek's wife of our plans. Make it so. All we have here are questions. Mister Data, continue with yourscan. Good luck, Doctor. Mister Data, take your station and keep her with you. This doesconcern her. Have you tried tracing back navigation inputs? I'm not very hungry. I really came for the view. Transporter Chief. Go ahead, Mister Worf. Doctor. Then I'll be irrational. I can't open this door. We're going to have to climb up to thenext deck. All right. Try it now. What sort of vessel? Can you see if those clamps are attached to long beams insidebig grooves? Doctor One of us is hungry. Data, I want you to go down to the cemetery. See if you canpinpoint the source. She's probably still there with the others. I wouldn'tworry. We need to regain control of the ship. Options? RO JR Enough! I'm not going to fight you. You'll just have to Cell regeneration? Bridge. Well, I have a little work tofinish up, then I'm going to my cabin. I'm going to put my feet up, I'mgoing to turn on my personal relaxation light and I'm going to losemyself in the pages of some old novel. What about you, Number One? You've earned a rest. let's proceed with the shuttle plan. Brull, will you show Mister Crusher thecourse to set to the Hromi Cluster? Are you and Voval working together? He's the only one who couldhave brought you the necklace. I appreciate your concern, Commander Data. What can I do foryou? Actually, I don't know. I always imagined that she did. Yes, I've heard of that story. It's a myth. Who? Who was the traitor? We don't rendezvous with the Havana for another two days. That'll give us plenty of opportunity to study this phenomenon. Lock on to Alkar's signal. Bring him on board. And because the subspace wave would appear simply as backgroundradiation, no one would realise what was happening until it was toolate. Now, for the past few weeks, theta-band subspace emissions havebeen detected coming from Celtris Three. Those emissions may indicatethat a metagenic delivery system in operation. Is everyone off the Fleming? Oh, yes. Allow us to help Mister Whalen, and we will returnwith the item. You said you'd reviewed her journals for the past five years. Maybe we should go further back. Mister La Forge. We are operating at ninety six percentengine efficiency. Well done. I prefer to look on the future as something which is notwritten in stone. A lot of things can happen in twenty five years. Malfunctioning? You're wrong. Look again. What had to be done? For whom? Why does a man with a long andbrilliant service abandon the fundamental principles that he hasbelieved in, even fought for, all his life? I believe it is because ofwhat they did to your wife and your children. Then I mean now, Commander. I'm just thinking that I'm saying goodbye to you as you aretoday. He wasn't violent? Computer, what is the time right now? A prodigy? In what sense? Ro Laren? From the Wellington? I'm trying. My Aunt Adele's cure for the common cold. Were you with Worf's father just before the attack on Khitomer? It certainly is the last place one would expect Romulanencroachment. On the other hand, Galorndon Corewould provide ideal cover for an opening move of a new offensive. What shall it be, Tomalak? Set a course for the Devron system, and engage at warp nine. I'm not so sure. I'm concerned about your record. Chancellor, to instantly transform a society with technologywould be harmful and it would be destructive, Mister Mendoza, if this lives up to its billing, it will be adiscovery of extraordinary value. But it is a big if. Not at all. But we are on a purely scientific mission. You haveno reason to interfere with us. Commander Data, please report to the Bridge. Acknowledged. Archaeology has been a hobby since Academy days. But why don'twe talk about what really brought you here? That is not a crime, Worf. Nor can we infer his guilt becausehe didn't respond. Then take us to the outer cometary cloud, Commander. Status, Mister Data? How critical will the losses be? If there is a psychology to these creatures, we must discoverit. If there is an explanation for their behaviour, we must know whatit is. Even in your current condition, you are the most qualifiedperson aboard this ship to assist. Data is in Observation attempting toformulate a strategy. I want you to join him. Deanna, we need you. Captain's log, supplemental. If our speed andcourse remain unchanged, in one hour the Enterprise will be torn apartby the gravitational forces of the cosmic string fragment. Put that area on the main viewer. Magnify. Disengage the tachyon pulse. And we may never know. Resume. Commander Data, Mister La Forge, prepare to beam down to theplanet. Admiral, we're approaching the Idini StarCluster. Would you like to take the conn as we make transit? I don't see why we couldn't just practice in my quarters. They're not dead. Communication is down, that's all. Do you carry weapons? I apologise for the delay in our arrival,Ambassador Briam. We had to stop at Harod Four to pick up a group ofstranded miners. For the eight hundred years people have been trying to solveit. Come on, you've done this before. It's just like on a holodeck. One step at a time, just climbing steadily and slowly. There are three Romulans, all of them with disruptors. One atconn. There are none of our security officers on the Bridge. They musthave taken us by surprise. It appears that we can move objects in thistime frame. Moriarty, you were conjured up to attemptto defeat Holmes here. Once that attempt is concluded, win or lose,yourprogramme has run its course. Your existence is done. I thought I was Captain of this starship. You have made a grave miscalculation. There's been an accident. Ambassador T'Pel has been killed in atransporter malfunction. In a manner of speaking. Someone has made a threat against hislife. Jason, I'm an old friend of your mother's. I'm here becauseyou're in danger. Damage report. Good. The only person you're truly competing against, Wesley,is yourself. Only because their world was the first on this heading toParliament. Open a channel, Mister Data. Thank you, Geordi. Red Alert. Battle stations. Bring us to an attack posture,Mister Worf. I find you unavailable. Report. Make it so. Suspect is perhaps too strong a word. I'm simply trying todetermine what has caused two of my officers to fall into comas. What was the other choice? We can't fight, we can't escape, wecan't go forward. P2 My understanding is that such devices were impractical. Fire torpedoes. They're sure this is going to work? How can I help? Nine point six. Father. No, no. The modulation frequency is in the upper harmonicrange. Captain to Security, I want all your senior supervisors toreport to the Bridge immediately. Why? Explain. Are you surprised to see me? From your knowledge of the man, what has gone wrong? And if I'm not mistaken, it ends a few months after your birth. Ah, but, now, your assignment here. I would consider andapprove you a transfer for you. Sound general quarters. Clear corridors ofall non-essential personnel. I don't want him taking any hostages. Am I intruding? It's only. There's just one thing I don't understand. You weresuch a rotten swimmer, Louis. Thinking of you working on the oceanfloor. Put them on screen. He was in need of emergency repair. It was our obligation toassist. Mister Worf, sweep the area. You may proceedPICARD But can't brain patterns be cloned? Is it possible that they could be branches of the same languagefamily, beginning with Iconian? Jono? Jono, where are you? At last. How can we help? As you wish, Admiral. I, er, I hope we can be friends? Which is not surprising, considering how closely theirevolution parallels Vulcan. Could it have been a natural phenomenon? Capsule? People? What people? Donald, your transmission is breaking up. Mister Data, try andclean that up. We've located the survivors from the Denver. Oh, my God. Mister Worf, will you escort the Doctor to her quarters. Set course to Algeron Four, Mister Crusher. Yes. Oh, I'm not taking it lightly. I'm just trying to be as dull aspossible. As soon as they cross the border, we'll intercept them. Ensign, increase to warp nine. Come on, Number One. We've got to regain control of our ship. A long time to be alone. Commander Riker? Not exactly. Nothing works just as you hope. If you can't tellus any more, I need to send a team down to the lab. Number One. Happy birthday. Number One, why don't you show the Commander to her quarters? There is a treaty between our peoples. You will agree, Data, that Starfleet'sorders are difficult? They're taking all the adults down to the surface. It lookslike they're keeping all the children on board the ship. Where was yourdaughter? JR My staff is quite capable. I'm glad they've been useful. Yes, Lieutenant? Signal the fleet to stand by. How close to the Cardassian border are we? Of course. Can you get a fix on the Fleming? Is she still in one piece? How? No. Liko. Liko, I am a man. I am not the Overseer. I am atraveller from a faraway land. Nothing more. In order to know whether Ambassador Spock's message is beingdelivered accurately, I need to understand something about themessenger. Yes, sir. Ihat, if she's looking for a sacrifice, she can take me. Perhaps then she'll stop looking for you. Lay in an intercept course for the Romulanship. Perhaps some day we will discover that space and time aresimpler than the human equation. No coordinates laid in, Number One? Good. Riker's presentation was devastating. He almost convinced me. Our orders are to penetrate the Celtris Three installation. AF? Doctor, how will you end the experiment? It's beginning. The nightmares have ended. All I need now is a little time tomyself. Yes, Doctor. If the point hasn't been made clearly, Commander, let me makeit again. Romulan warships do not enter Federation space unless theyare prepared to do battle. That is an order, Doctor. Now, assemble all personnel on thetransporter pad. Now! Picard to Enterprise. You're destroying yourself and anyone who is foolish enoughto listen to you. It's really quite intriguing. The whole thing is made possibleby a complex mathematical construct based on fractal particle motion. But that's only the foundation. The modeling itself is done bygravimetric wave input. Thank you. Are you saying they beamed the Ambassador off our own pad? No matter how tempted? No matter how difficult Q makes it foryou? I want this unit pulled and its systems checked again. I want alevel one diagnostic on all transporters. Just what is the evidence against myofficer? I like that. Oh yes, computer, English tack, and I will controlthe animal myself. Doctor Crusher to the Bridge. How different? Mister Data, welcome home. First Officer's log, stardate 4124.5. We have foundData's home to be a completely dead world made out of lifelessvegetation. No insects, not even soil bacteria. What is it that couldkill everything on an entire planet? K'Tal, this Council knows the law of heredity well. G'now jukHol pajhard. A son shall share in the honours or crimes of his father. Toral is Duras' son. That has been established by the genetic scan. Butwith due respect to the traditions and laws of this High Council, thereis no basis for accepting a petition for leadership from a boy who hasfought no battles, shed no blood for his people, or earned no honourfor himself. One day, perhaps he shall. But not now. Duras is dead. Hisclaim to the leadership died with him. Gowron shall lead the Council. But the question remains, why? What is its purpose? Nor do I. I don't even remember who I am. All right, let's have a look. All stop, and hold this position. Fire phasers. Number One? You found what you were looking for, Mister Worf? But there had to be some reason. In some way, you weredifferent from the other colonists. Yourgeographical location, your philosophical beliefs, the colour of youreyes. In some way you were set apart from them. Donald, we'll get our teams to work on it immediately. I'm sureneither of us feels too comfortable sitting around in the Neutral Zone. Captain's log, supplemental. It has beenthree days since the Aldeans pushed us away. We have had no contactwith Radue since then. Very well. Doctor, Counsellor. Go ahead, Mister Data. Dismissed. I hope you and I don't regret this, Admiral. Did you signal the Hood, Commander Riker? And look what we've done. Mister Data, I'd like a word with CommanderLa Forge. Never? What have you learned, Number One? Mister Worf, it's going to be far more difficult where we'regoing. Beverly, we've done everything that we can. How can we be prepared for that which we do not know? But I doknow that we are ready to encounter it. Q Come. Mister Worf, I thought our meetingwas scheduled for eleven hundred hours. One to beam down to away team location. Hurry! Engage! Transporter Room. Urgent! Engage! Replacing the burners. City ordinance. Makes it safer in caseof earthquake. There's still the anomalous M-class planet we were going toinvestigate. Do we go back? No he's not. He's er, he's from South America. On screen. Yes, it will. Now, once I have regained voice command, I will transport youfrom the holodeck. Isn't that what I ordered? I shall busy making arrangements for the conference. There's no time, Number One. Initiate the transport. Yes, Doctor? Mister Okona. Mister La Forge? Disengage the cloaking device, Commander. Torture is expressly forbidden by the terms of the SeldonisFour convention governing treatment of prisoners of war. Of course, something you learn. A dare devil stunt? I would certainly hope not. What concernsme is that you participated in acover-up that impeded an official investigation into the death of acadet. They're coming. Chief. Q We would rather die. I would not expect any. Judging from the severity ofbombardment, I doubt any Iconians survived. Well, Mister Data, let'ssee what sense we can make of this. Always. I have encountered many who more credibly could be called thedevil than you. I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation StarshipEnterprise. Number One, MacDougal, get that boy out ofEngineering. I doubt it. There'd be nothing to gain. It's more likely thatthey would simply wipe out his memory of those experiences. Medical ship? By all means. Well, Commander? What have you done to Commander Data? Most certainly I deny it. I agree we still were when humanswore costumes like that, four hundred years ago. Q But how is that possible? Security code? No, not adrift. The Enterprise is a starship, capable oftravelling through space. You said he was stationed there for six years. Agreed. Ensign McKnight, plot the most direct course, aheadwarp one. I hate it when you do that. What if we could reverse that process? Cause time movebackwards and then forwards. Will. Open. What crimes are you referring to? Vines infect animals in order to kill them? Actually, his name is Jeremiah, Jeremiah Rossa. It's all right, Mister Worf. Well, it was all in the legs, all that running I did. Boothby. Oh, yes, it's possible. And if so, this is a find of mostenormous significance. That library seems designed to do so much morethan simply store information. Who knows what we might learn from this? Oh? Get me a full report from Engineering. All dead? Would it be simpler if I were not your commanding officer? No ID, no answer to our signals. There are no technologically advanced cultures in that systemnow. But perhaps eighty seven million years ago, there were. What's your assessment of our potential effectiveness? Why would such an advanced thing feel obliged to protect theEdo? No, I must, as a matter of fact, be getting back to the Bridge. Understandable. Mister Data? Come. Hailing frequencies. What are you looking at? With the Borg threat, I decided that my officers and I neededto hone our tactical skills. In a crisis situation, it is prudent tohave several options. Thank you. In the other two time periods, Starfleet reported a sort of aspatial anomaly in, in, in the Devron system. In Devron system in theNeutral Zone. Come on. Is something the matter, Lieutenant? If for any reason you would like to wait a few minutes. That is an understatement, Data. Is it possible that someone orsomething could have affected you without your knowing? In fact, Penny is waiting for me right now. Q Can you clean that up, Mister Worf? If you knew something, why didn't you say so? We don't have the luxury to speculate. Back us away from thedistortion, Ensign. One half impulse. So I am sentient, but Data is not? Casualties? He knows I'm here. I assure you, Ambassador, everything will be ready before theconference begins. I, er, I assumed because of the way you welcomed me the otherday. How did he seem then? Then why must Sakkath help to contain your emotions? And this? We're going up. Ready? Bok once used a mind control device to make me hallucinate. He's also an arch-criminal. Is she all right? Me, too. State of the art vessel? Data, signal Parliament we'll bedelayed. We will send a new arrival time as soon as it is determined. Remember what you told me back at RelvaSeven, About the threat that you perceived to the very fabric of theFederation? Prepare to transport Ambassador T'Pel to the Romulan ship. That wouldn't be wise. I want you to look into it, Doctor. Thoroughly. Mister Worf, your responsibilities as a Starfleet officer areincompatible with remaining on board a Klingon ship during a time ofwar. You'll never get away with this. Starfleet will never stand andwatch you tear apart one of the founding worlds of the Federation. Beverly, you are arguing for a man who may have murdered yourson. Romulan vessel, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USSEnterprise. Then I'm in good company, sir. He apparently has the power to heal injuries with a simpletouch. It's been suggested that she was aboard the Enterprise C whenit was destroyed twenty four years ago, that she was one of thesurvivors and that obviously you are a product of a union between herand a Romulan. Good. It is important that you trust us. You must calm your people. There is no reason for panic. How many finally? Of course. My staff will give you their full cooperation. Reaching up from the planet surface. Amazing power. Data, whatdoes the legend say about the end of the Tkon Empire? What was your vessel's designation and its complement? Go ahead, Number One. As in Admiral Rossa? Mister La Forge, take us out of orbit. Try and hail them, Mister Worf. About what? Welcome back, Data. And there is a bill to be settled at Mrs. Carmichael's boardinghouse. Can we assume you mean this will be a fair trial? Q That is correct, Mister La Forge. Warp factor eight. Evasive manoeuvres, Ensign! Return fire. Doctor Manheim, I'm Captain Picard. Show me. Oh, I see. He was a colleague of yours. What the devil? They're mad. By the time we reach Parliament, Mister Singh. Yes, friends. There's a second energy beam. It's coming from the Enterprisedeflector array. Do you have any idea what that could be? No. Open up the transporters in Cargo bay two and diverteveryone from deck seven to there. That should put it back on track. Computer, report on geologic instability on Beta Agni Two. Is that what you're doing here? Trying to recapture thosefeelings? Well, what if we used a sample of her DNA, say from a bloodtest taken before she was exposed to the disease? Could that be used tofilter out the genetic changes? Her society is aware that there is interstellar life? I would like to know Masaka, speak with her. Let's hear the second option. Mrs. Miller, if I could have prevented this I would have. They've managed to turn a dubious scientific endeavour intodogma. I don't suppose so. Anna, no matter how long it takes, we will get out of here. Because I don't know who or what you are. That'll have to wait. How long until they begin to coalesce? Yes. His name was Joshua Albert. Look Corey, we're not cadets anymore. We're officers. We shouldstart to set a higher standard for ourselves. Will you escort Ensign Crusher to the Aster quarters? How long before it loses integrity? It is exactly as they left it, Number One. In the bottle. Theship in the bottle. Good Lord, didn't anybody here build ships inbottles when they were boys? Specifics, Doctor. Of course. Too risky. You could be pulled in too. Bridge to Engineering. Also becomes a reality. We must,therefore, I repeat, must begin controlling our thoughts. You seem I've always believed that becoming involved withsomeone under my command would compromise my objectivity. And yet. Transfer auxiliary power to the inertial dampers. Begin long-range scanningof all sectors within threelight years of Braslota. Howis your crew shaping up? Objection. There are many life forms possessed of megastrength. These issues are not relevant to this hearing. Is he still trying to raise the ocean floor? Load all torpedo bays. Ready phasers. It's a little stiff, but it'll be fine. Mister Locarno. It's been suggested that Spock might have defected. We've seen enough. Gone? Engineering, report. Prevent it from sending or receivingtransmissions of any kind. Mute main viewer. Counsellor? Anthwara, I deeply regret that we have notbeen able to reach an agreement. But, and I must be blunt, I cannottake no for an answer. This planet will be handed over to theCardassian government in accordance with the terms of the borderagreement. I am very sorry, but you will have to leave. My head. Oh. Dizzy. I can't. No! No! And I will not return without a full explanation. Ambassador,with great respect for all that you've achieved on behalf of theFederation, this sort of cowboy diplomacy will not easily be toleratedany more. That leaves us but one alternative. Tell Starfleet we're entering the Neutral Zone. As have yours. Yes. She believes the Picard is a magical figure. I'm going to showher how the magic works. I'm going to bring her aboard. Doctor, you were fully aware that the atmospheric dissipationcould not be stopped. What did you hope to accomplish by assistingthese people? So far. He must be torn. These are his people. Your security status? Your point is well taken, Mister Data. I'm sure that to theAntedeans, we are equally unattractive. Computer, continue recording and playback once more. From thetop. Affirmative. Make it a ship-wide search, Lieutenant. Do we have clearance? I must get my ship back. Do we have time for this? Can you locate the shuttle? Fascinating. So many questions. How can a two-dimensionalentity have access to a three-dimensional universe? And are they awareof us? Number One, if we can put off the T'lli Betans, I would like toinvestigate this further as soon as we're free of the graviton field. Cause? Commander Riker will assume that we'll be searching for them. He'll find some way to send us a message. Mister Worf, I want continualmonitoring of Ferengi subspacefrequencies. Mister La Forge, can you extend our sensor range? I'm not cringing. I'm just acknowledging my limitations. Then we will have to find someone too whom she will listen. Speculate. Mister Crusher what was that? And how long will you keep him there? A week? A month? A year? No. Listen, Tog, I must possesses Lwaxana. And if that meansdestroying your ship in the process, so be it. No, no, no. You must go on working on the retrovirus. I'll go. Yes, Counsellor. Sit down, please. Our situation has becomecritical. The cluster remains completely unresponsive. We have not beenable to alter its course toward the cosmic string fragment. Groppler Zorn may have the answers we need. Get him. Bring him here. But we could still see each other. People do. We could arrangeshore leave together. And, for the future, who knows? I think you should know, this has never been attempted before. Some other time, Q. Right now I have other matters to attendto. Q I get the feeling from your mother that you have something totell me. JR Put a repeating message on all subspace channels. Order theLieutenant to come about and stand to. Make it a priority onecommuniqué. How bad is it? If the Enterprise medical facility can do anything to help. I look forward to sampling them. And one more full day for their answer to return. I'd like thetruth on this by then. I'd hate to have to prepare a formal defence. It's your choice. If you wish, you can stay on the Enterprise. We will drop you at a starbase, then you can go where you wish. We thought you were at risk. It is our mission to seek out life in all forms. We areprivileged to have been present at the emergence of a new species. No. Inside the freighter! The door is on the opposite side! Over here! The door's over here! Yes. He found nothing wrong on the Enterprise. And you caninform the crew that Admiral Quinn is most impressed. What about all the people in that world who are totallydependant on their computer? Are they still functioning? Life signs? Come. What? Now just a minute. Here's something odd. It's glowing. The matter is already decided. You're beaming down to yourworld with the felicium. We are not here as conquerors, Chancellor. Then you must have the capability of affecting memory. Can youerase the short-term memory of everyone on this ship, remove allknowledge of this event, allow us to proceed as if it had neverhappened? No thank you. Q Would you step into my Ready room, please. And bring atricorder with you. The performance of my crew is none of the Ambassador'sbusiness. My staff and I were brought here by an old adversary of minenamed Q, and I'll tell you the rest of that once we're safe. Come, we don't have much time. I don't believe you speak for the majority of the crew. Dismissed. But surely you wish to live like the rest of us? Has his been changed as well? You need some rest, Doctor. It's turning yellowish. No, we have to maintain the static warp shell as long aspossible! I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I haven't found anything,including peace, which is the only thing I'm looking for. Tell me, Taggert, if she served you as well as you say, why didyou let her go? I want you to know that I am not unsympathetic to what you'regoing through. Your mother's disappearance is tragic, but I cannot riskyour safety on the basis of a dubious hypothesis. I don't understand. Why was there a power drain beforetransport? I hope you're right, because he and I were friends for yearsafter this. I mean, I hope we will be. You know, you keep smiling atme. Make it so, Lieutenant. The environmental settings in these quarters have been altered. Data, over here. Progress? Assemble your away party, Commander. This must be an excitingmoment for you, Mister Data. I'm tempted to lead the away team myself,except that my First Officer would object. Yes, Admiral? Let's investigate. Maintain speed. Alter course accordingly. What's wrong? And you believe he's using the same tactic now. Open a channel. If the cause is just and honourable, they are prepared to givetheir lives. Are you prepared to die today, Tomalak? I remember the same discussions between mother and father. What shall we play? All right, tell me from the beginning exactly what happened. Isn't that exactly what we anticipated? They beamed aboard as a diversion to give their ship time toescape. And you don't intend to back off that position? Ishara, I wanted to thank you personally for what you did forus down on the colony. It was more than I expected. Meeting? Identify yourself. Then I can't ask them to go back. And is it the same situation if it's an epidemic, and not ageological calamity? Can you build one? Very well. Commander Riker, will you see to the Admiral'sstaff? Nothing so grandiose. Just this. Cooperation. There was anintent here. Whoever or whatever did this is more powerful than eitherof us. Let's collaborate. Let's share whatever we learn about what hashappened here. No problem, Number One. Send down a medical team. Mister Worf, dispatch a subspace message to Admiral Hanson. Wehave engaged the Borg. Mister Data, I want you to review their research. I'd like yourreport as soon as possible. No, Q, you did not. Q This leader of theirs, Conor, he seems to be a reasonable man. Because if I order Data never to divulge what he sees in there,he won't, with the exception of anything that might belong to us. Acknowledged, Number One. Mister Data, are you all right? Fire when ready. Considering the marvellous complexity of our universe, itsclockwork perfection, its balances of this against that, matter,energy, gravitation, time, dimension, I believe that our existence mustbe more than either of these philosophies. That what we are goes beyondEuclidian and other practical measuring systems and that our existenceis part of a reality beyond what we understand now as reality. Mister O'Brien was the one who safely executed the return ofthe away team. He's the most qualified person on board to operate thetransporters under these circumstances. Make it so. And put out a hazard advisory to Starfleet. Ensign,set a course to Evadne Four. On screen. My ship is in danger. It is imperative that I regainnavigational control. I want you to persuade Professor Moriarty toreturn the voice command to me, or I will not modify the transporter. Lieutenant La Forge, you have command until further notice. Please, make the proper ship's log entries. Go ahead, Mister Worf. Will the probe be able to transmit through that interference? He had a kind face. An optimistic vote of confidence from a non-rider. Do you have any suggestions, Admiral? It's a great pity you began by abducting my Security Officer,Lutan, because I should tell you I do admire the hospitality you offerhere. I'll notify Starbase of your acceptance They'll contact theKlingon vessel, make the arrangements. Captain's log, stardate 42506.5. We have departedfrom Starbase one seven nine and are headed for a rendezvous with theKlingon vessel, Pagh. I have informed the staff of Commander Riker'stemporary assignment. Very well, Mister Data. And Mister Data, thank you. It's in a state of total anarchy. When the Prime Minister wasassassinated, a Federation research team was on the planet. It'sbelieved that they were forced into hiding. Your mission will be tolocate and to evacuate them. Get him up here. Her name was Corlina. I'd arranged to take her out today, andthen she discovered that I had already made a second date with anotherwoman called, er, Penny, and Corlina was naturally upset. Q Security alert, condition three. Computer, shut down alltransporter systems and shuttlebays. Mister La Forge? Yes, Mister La Forge. Of course, Number One. You have the Bridge, Mister Data. Hold for my orders. What's our course? Agreed. Let's give them the chance to look their enemy in theface. Ready, Lieutenant? Proceed. Mister Worf, report to my Ready room. My guest is departing. Gentlemen, please, let's not indulge in speculation. Can weconfine our discussion to facts? Now, Mister O'Brien Consider it Captain's privilege. We misinterpreted your actions as an attack on us. Well, we've got to give it a try. The nebula or the pulsar? It's your choice, Mister La Forge. No. No, it actually makes sense to me. Only the power ofthought could explain what has been happening. Especially out here. Lutan, we can provide you with records of her death and howDoctor Crusher brought her back. Manoeuvring thrusters? For as long as we can hold it. What do they mean? Go ahead, Number One. In fact I authorise and support your idea, Riker. Please, feelfree to cooperate with him if you wish. Try them again. Boost the signal strength. Ensign, put up the shields until further notice. I appreciate your telling me, but I'm quite sure that the twoof you will find some way to deal with the situation. Mrs. Sarek. How soon, Mister Data? Weapons report! Then, Mister Crusher, engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. I see in your file that Captain DeSoto thinks very highly ofyou. One curious thing, however, you refused to let him beam down toAltair Three. Open a channel. Mister Data? Mister O'Brien, will you use thesespecifications to bypass the secondary plasma inducer. If we withdraw, what do you intend to do with the Bajoranvessel? Could it be that grandfather analogy that Graves planted in hishead?. Data is an orphan in a manner of speaking. Is it possible thatthe loss of Graves might have affected him? Touched him on someemotional level we didn't know he possessed? There are four lights. How about you, young man? Do you wear your skin protectoroutdoors? You do? Good boy. JR A bad love affair ends in a bloodyshoot-out, the hotel gets bought out, and life goes on, such as it is. Then we will leave them be. I'll order warning beacons placedin orbit and on the surface. Hopefully, no one else will have to gothrough what you did. Where's Commander Riker? I would like to know the root of your prejudice for my First Officer. Those are Connor and Moira Rossa. They are your parents. Thebaby is you. Jeremiah Rossa. But in a sense, that's exactly what happened. Wesley left theEnterprise three years ago he was a boy, and now he's returned a youngman. And that can't be easy for a mother or a son. Remmick! I see. Do you think this will interfere with your duties? A little time together? How much? Q If you've come here because of the legend about planet Havenmiraculously healing the sick. Return environmental conditions to normal, Mister Data. Move inyour security teams, Mister Worf. WORF Number One, lay in a course. How long will it take to programme thephasers, Number One? I am not angry with you. A part that she's protecting. You said that everything youencountered when you were in her mind was a barrier of one kind oranother. It's understandable. Thank you, Doctor. If you have a case to make againstTarses, you had better make it, otherwise I'm stopping this here andnow. It goes far beyond friendship. Very well. Energise the network. I understand, Lieutenant. It's always a chess game with them, isn't it? Call me Dix. What the hell are you doing in my room? I didn't welcome you aboard personally, professionally. I madeyou come to me on the Bridge. I yelled at your son. Who, as you pointedout, was quite correct. He does seem to have a very good grasp ofstarship operations. Oh, and one piece of good news.. We're to rendezvous with ashuttlecraft carrying Wesley Crusher. He's on vacation from theAcademy. Does the supply ship have any weapons? We're not going to be able to determine anything from here. Weneed to get on board the Enterprise. What if he's not alone? What if he brings some of his Nausicaanfriends with him? Perhaps another time. Well, that's certainly another option, but as we're stopping atStarbase Montgomery anyway, we'll let them do the analysis. Tallera, I've decided on a change of plan. Take one of theartefacts with you. Leave the other here. As soon as we have ourpayment in full, we'll complete the delivery. Picard to Bridge. Signal the Romulan ship that the last groupis on board. Yes. To use him in this manner, we'd be no better than theenemy that we seek to destroy. So, I want other options. I have nothing to say to you, and I will resist you with mylast ounce of strength. Yes! Q You cannot put a price on a life. Take us out of here, Mister Riker. Professor Galen? Aupres de ma blonde, il fait bon, fait bon,fait bon. Ensign, where are we? All right. For the moment. Can you tell me if Deanna's incident is relatedin any way to this missing time period? Plot an intercept course. We're going to assume the Yamato's mission. We will. It is part of our job to retain an open mind, evenunder these circumstances. Mister La Forge, take them to Engineering. Get the core back online. Slow to half impulse. I'm on my way. Oh, come on, it's been hours. You must be hungry. He's not from this world. None of us are. We are from a world,we're from a world of fabulous riches. A world where there are objectsfar greater than the one you seek. Mister La Forge, shut down all computer access to Ten Forward. Go ahead, Riker. We're alone. Picard to away team. Prepare to return to the shipimmediately. His visit is not just an inspection of Lal's progress. He hasexpressed a concern for her environment. I want to end the suffering of one of my crewmembers. I don't like operating in the dark. If I knew what the point ofthis mission were, why I was analysing these relics. You know, I imagine a very similar discussion taking place onour neighbour ship over a thousand years ago. Let's hope our decisionsare more successful than theirs were. Mister La Forge, I want you toreturn to Engineering and continue with your efforts without delay. Mister Worf, prepare the phasers. Is that a problem? Professor, I feel it necessary to point out that criminalbehaviour is as unacceptable in the twenty fourth century as it was inthe nineteenth. And much harder to get away with. Open a channel. I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the FederationStarship Enterprise. I must see Sarek. We have had prior dealings with Duras that show him to beuntrustworthy. If I had gone with him. We're fine. Everything is in order. But now, I want a completecheck, all systems, all divisions. Well, perhaps I could wait, if you don't mind. I'm reallyanxious to meet this remarkable young man who swept away not just one,but two of the Howard women. Lower shields. Surrender, as ordered. You're saying there are holes in their defence system? We have to. If we don't seal that hole, this other dimensionhe's opened will rip into the fabric of the galaxy. Reality as weperceive it will not be the same. Lieutenant Worf. Prepare your team. Why are you keeping me locked in this freighter? You say thatthere are wild animals out there but I haven't heard or seen a singleone of them. No, I don't think so. Yes. 47988. Are you certain? Yes, of course you are. In five days, you have seen only the most superficial evidenceof what life is like outside this biosphere. Hold present course. Go ahead, Geordi. Yes, of course. Good to have you aboard. Ah. Then, welcome aboard, Doctor. Re-engage now. All right. Set a course for those stars, warp six. Not bad. He had second degree burns on his chest andmultiple fractures of his right arm, but he's going to be fine. Make it so. I've been sick. I'll be tossing and turning. It wouldn't befair to you. That's a very long time to have such technology. Why do youreveal yourselves to us now? Do it! Go to impulse power. About time. On screen. In the interim, the Academy's loss is our gain. The Enterprisewill continue to benefit from your talents for another year. No, no, it was much more than a dream. The smells, the sounds,the very touch of things, much more real than a dream. Five, four Yes. I understand it has unusual radioactive emissions, and I'msure that Stellar Sciences will find it a most interesting study. Picard. Yes. Lieutenant? Status. Perhaps so. Anything is possible. I'm sorry, Vash. Would you have brought me here if I had toldyou? I understand. But I just want you to know I'm available if youshould change your mind. Bring us to the last known coordinates of the shuttlecraft. Now that we know how each of us feels, perhaps we should not beafraid to explore those feelings. Computer. Store programme Picard delta onein active memory and discontinue simulation. Yes? We need someone to read a part. You're just in time. Commander, we will leave. It is not our policy to intervene inthe affairs of other cultures. But before I return the survivor to you,I would appreciate a more detailed explanation of what he has done tomerit a death sentence. Open hailing frequencies. Of what is he accused? How is this possible? You have made a very serious accusation. Iwant you to explain it. Maintain course. Commander, you have entered Federation space despite mywarning. Evasive action. He mustn't. He's the only one who can get us back. Of course. Stay as long as you wish. No. I hope your journey aboard the Merrimacwill be uneventful. Mister O'Brien, transport Mister La Forge and the Romulandirectly to the Bridge. Captain to Security, come in! I agree. Do what you can to accomplish that, Counsellor. No, you didn't, Data. You got it. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Captain? This is the Enterprise. I'm Jean-Luc Picard. How long? Then I don't understand why you are unwilling? Did you know the boy from Nova Squadron who was killed? What can you determine, Mister La Forge? What's happening to me, Number One? I was preparing to beam outto somewhere. And I remember there was talk of an entity? But it allseems so vague. Good. Inform Doctor Crusher. Data. I had a father, but he was like a father who understood me. Andhe had his own children but they didn't follow in his footsteps, so Iwas like the son who understood him. But I do. This must stop. It has gone too far. You lied to himabout the Engine Room. There were no volatile chemicals found there. Commander Riker, prepare to return to the shuttlebay. No, it wasn't. Q Somehow I doubt you'd find life aboard a starship suitable toyour taste. You're relieved of duty, Commander. Mister Worf, confineMister Riker to his quarters. 2 You want Federation involvement? Let's not rush it, shall we? Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Computer, access Captain Donald Varley'spersonal log. Search parameter. Locate entries containing words Romulanand or Iconia. Captain, your orders are to take us to a set of co-ordinatesnear Romulus and to bring us back, and that is all I am prepared todiscuss. I can imagine nothing that would be more offensive to a Vulcan. Their emotional detachment is the very core oftheir being. How would this affect others on board the ship? Dismissed. Geordi, I understand how much we want, even need, toexplain an accident like this. Sometimes there just aren't anyexplanations. I order you to return to duty at once. Mister Locarno has been expelled. I assure you this is an informal inquiry. We are not accusingyou of anything. However, if you would like counsel, it can be providedfor you. Data, assign it a neutral target. Of what nature? Velara Three base, this is Captain Picard of the starshipEnterprise. Number One, I believe what happened on the Horatio wassabotage. That thought had passed through my mind, Counsellor. The hum has gone too. Why? Explain to her. Good luck, Commander. Exactly. How soon can you have the link ready? Really happened. I notice you haven't taken off your gloves. You still haven't answered my question, Sarek. Is it logicalfor a Vulcan to cry? Lieutenant Prieto, is Counsellor Troi all right? My First Officer has said that ownership of this cargo is indispute, but this question must be settled by whatever legal mechanismexists between your societies. So, they used that expertise and turned to cloning. Data. I can give you all safe passage. There goes the other shoe. They know. How? Good. Keep me posted. Put us in orbit of the seventh planet. Keep us at a relativedistance of ten kilometres from the object. But not today. This is the twenty fourth century. Material needs no longerexist. Do you have any facts that fit this? Can you get us back? Fire. Oops. Just where does she think you're calling from? Ardra somehow transported me here. Will youbeam me directly to my quarters. Well, I'm familiar with the practice of the feast before thetransfer. I've done it dozens of times. However, I usually made morepalatable choices. Beverly, maybe you should consider letting her go ahead with this genetronic procedure. No, but Earth isn't likely to be ordered to the Neutral Zone,or to repel a Romulan attack, It was my command which sent his motherto her death. She understood her mission and my duty. Will he? Condition? On screen. Can we reactivate it? Geordi, I've just spoken with Starfleet. The Hera is missing. Ensign. Wesley, that's not true. You're a fine young man. We have been at peace for many years. Let us not rush headlonginto war. She's beautiful. A wonderful testimony to simpler times. I don't see any alternative, do you? Yes of course, Counsellor. Contact Farpoint Station. I wish tospeak with Commander Riker. What kind of problem, Number One? Make it so. What are the risks to Commander Data? Jono, I want you to stop this immediately! Did they come aboard with Doctor Quaice? No, listen. On screen. Magnify. Shields? What are you trying to tell me? Good. Thank you. I'm not much good to you, Wesley. Then perhaps we should forget about what happened and try to Thank you, Number One. Yes. Please get to the point. Laren, what's going on? RO Kamala, you are one day away from an arranged mating. Why wouldyou want me to visit you in your quarters? Captain RikerPICARD And I'll lead it. You have the Bridge, Number One. Hailing frequencies. Ensign, warp two now! Where? Make it so, Number One. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. On the Enterprise, we used harmonic resonators to relieve thetectonic pressures on Drema Four. Obviously, it's not the same problembut Computer, reset diagnostic for new sample, lot number three sixnine B. Why does it have to be me? Attacked it ? Then let's start at the beginning. The first entry seems to bestardate 30620.1. It would seem you two have a lot to discuss. If you'll excuseme. Go ahead. Not as much as you'd imagine. Sarek and Spock. Well, sometimes,fathers and sons. A gateway? Mister La Forge, report. Open hailing frequencies. This may not be good medicine, but for Worf, it may be his only choice. What is it? What would never work? P2 I stand relieved. Come. Yes, Lieutenant? Rest assured, Gul Dolak, there will be no terrorist attackstoday. We are escorting the Bajoran settlers to their camp on ValoThree. You can monitor their course if you wish. Go ahead, Number One. What are you talking about, Data? Is this still SherlockHolmes? They're okay too. But What is it, Doctor? I appreciate your candour, but despite your condition there isno one better equipped to deal with these Romulans than you. They're our guests, Mister Worf. I don't want them to feel likeprisoners. Not yet, Mister Worf. This is just a tap on the shoulder, or wewouldn't be here talking about it. Will, if this spatial anomaly really is in the Devron System. Just half an hour ago he was crying like a baby. Lieutenant Yar, we're ready in the guest quarters. Well, the Uthat belongs to your time, not mine. Computer, locate Lieutenant Commander Data. Can you waken him? It would be inappropriate. Mister Fajo, I would like to analyse your sensor readings ofthe explosion. Doctor Crusher. Well, thank you for a delicious meal. We must do this againsometime. What did you say? Shields and deflectors up. Go to Yellow Alert. Mister Worf. I agree, Ambassador. All of the difficult issues have beenresolved. Oh, I'm fine, Doctor. Lieutenant Yar, run a structural analysison the Stargazer for an impulse tow. Data, download all computers tothe Enterprise and file. I'm going to look at my old cabin. Signal them at once. They could be unaware of the danger. Theymay need our help. Data, are you all right? Give me some options, Data, quickly. On screen. Yes. Very well. Ensign Gates? How long have you been on Caldos? Have you found anything yet? According to Baran's logs, we are todeliver the two pieces to the T'Karath Sanctuary on Vulcan. The Romulans were impressed, to say the least. After years ofdistrust and conflict, they started to talk. You were our key spokesmanin securing the alliance with the Romulans. Can we actually talk to them yet? Say Mac, I would like to buy a newspaper too, but I don't haveany money. Trouble, Number One? I don't want to use you as other men do. Never had the time. Admiral, I don't think we can risk Then how is it able to move? Do you have any further advice, Counsellor? Is the boy in any danger? I'm so sorry. Are they still catatonic? Good. Please, will you tell DaiMon Solok that we're interestedin transportation to Celtris Three. Seal off deck six. Activate security fields sections twentythree through twenty nine. Data, escort her to Sickbay. Let's say I have personal reasons and leave it at that, shallwe? But Professor, you're not scheduled to catch the Vulcan shipfor another two days. Chief O'Brien, are you ready? Our momentum is still carrying us into thepath of the stellar matter. What kind of traders? Lock phasers on target. I met the new head of Stellar Sciences last night. LieutenantCommander Daren. I don't recall. Oh. Have I been the subject of conversation? I'm on my way. I understand, Mister La Forge. Number One, have we any further business inthe Tanuga system? If your engines are functioning we'll attempt to break free. No. What are you doing, Will? I trust the process we have built with the Romulans over thepast four years. They have nothing to gain by betrayal. Hailing frequencies, Mister Worf. So, what do you do? I know that the burial vaults of the First Hebitiancivilisation are said to be magnificent. So. Five card stud, nothing wild, and the sky's the limit. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. You are asking me to step down. Standard orbit, Mister La Forge. You claim you visited this planet a thousand years ago andnegotiated a contract? I have been trying to make sense of this gobbledygook, but it'sbeyond me. The fact is, my android officer, Data, is being transferredcompulsorily to be made part of a highly dangerous, ill-conceivedexperiment, and I want it stopped. Open hailing frequencies, Geordi. I'm not aware of this incident or of the man you named, andthis happened seven hundred years ago. I do not see what bearing it canhave Is there any indication that the sphere is inhabited? What is the last thing you do remember? I'm just charting progress of the course of the sun. It mightgive a clue to the cause of this drought. Then he has? Let's go see your patient, Doctor. Green polychrome over the eyes, and the eyes themselves areclosed. This is third Dynasty. From the workshop of the Master ofTarquin Hill. How long before the power drain becomescritical, Mister La Forge? Well, I'm sure you'll see there's nothinghere to appeal to a young person. On screen. He has a legal claim, Mister Worf. Your personal feelingstoward him Your next priority will be to retrieve any information you canabout this ship's mission. Contact the OperationsOfficer to assist you. Agreed. This tells me that a large spatial anomaly has appeared in theNeutral Zone, in the Devron System. You picked a wonderful locale. This is something I might havechosen myself. Come. What? How long did it appear to you that we were frozen? I agree with the Counsellor. Amanda deserves to know the truthof her situation. We have no right to withhold such crucial informationfrom her. But it isn't going to be easy telling her. Come. What's happening? Report. To whom? All right, gentlemen, your theories on thissudden vulnerability of these systems. DATA If other members of the away team became disoriented, it couldcreate additional problems and perhaps increase the danger. Transporter Room! Is Commander Riker aboard? Q, I strongly suspect it's some explaining you have to do now. Data, where are you taking him? Doubts? I'm full of them. But nothing in my experience canpersuade me that what you have told me is true. And I do know onething. It will not affect my judgment at our next encounter. Lower your weapons or Bok is dead. Both of us. Beyond? Well, we'll respect Mister Mendrossen's request and allowAmbassador Sarek his privacy. I suppose they were foolish and vain, myexpectations of this voyage. Sharing his thoughts, memories, his uniqueunderstanding of the history he's made. K'mpec, you cannot possibly be serious. A Federation officerhas no business in I believe that Chapter Four, Article Twelve of the Uniform Codeof Justice grants me the right to make a statement before questioningbegins. Something other than a large bowl of vegetable soup. How can you be? How can you be comfortable watching people die? Check the hull integrity. Lieutenant Worf is my Chief of Security and my tacticalofficer. This matter clearly falls within his jurisdiction. Eline. Commander Riker, escort her to quarters. There's no need foryou to travel in the cargo bay. If we ever needed reminding of the importance of the PrimeDirective, it is now. On top of everything, there's been a change. We've been givenonly two weeks to complete the exploration. Lore. The flute? I don't know anymore. I just don't know. I think that now would be quite nice. Look about you, Sovak. By now it must be obvious, even to you. The Uthat is not here. I'm sorry about this Gu, Gloria. I didn't actually mean you toget involved. She knows nothing about this, Johnny. Set auto-destruct sequence. And when the away team arrived early he must have been worriedthat Starfleet was becoming suspicious. He needed more time to finishhis work. Apgar said that each of the three versions. No doubt, he wasafraid that Commander Riker mightlearn the truth and cut off his support prematurely. DiscoveringCommander Riker with his wife didn't help matters. I submit that he decided to murder Commander Riker. Arming these people is a violation of everything that theFederation stands for. Even you cannot be blind to that. RO Permission granted. Admiral, respectfully. I would appreciate consulting rights onthe assignment of a new officer, especially one with the record of RoLaren. Yes, but there's a certain expectancy too. A hopefulness aboutthe future. You see, Shakespeare enjoyed mixing opposites. The past andthe future. Hope and despair. Data, what is this? Is this part of yourprogramme? Excellent. I consider it important for my key officers knoweach other's abilities. Mister Worf, what is your analysis? Doctor, this seems to be a situation more suited to yourtalents. I'll leave it with you. I'll be on the Bridge. I'm sorry to offend you, Gul Dolak, but we cannot withdraw. And yet you survived. Indeed. I believe we have time to take a closer look, NumberOne. Can you estimate the number of jumps it will take? There should be! There has to be! Data, is there some other wayto scan for a temporal disturbance? Something that isn't covered in anormal sensor sweep. Data, I promised Mister Nelson that you would assist him withthe sensor diagnostic. You'll find him hard at work on deck thirty six. Is that intended as a threat? They also have a minimum of two phaser banks and possiblyphoton torpedoes. Is that enough to worry about? In return for some pain you'd given other creature? Ensign, step away from her. I'm not sure. I hope so. Are you making any progress toward solvingour problems? So, you've heard? We will rendezvous with the warship Q'Maire at oh seven fortyhours. We will transfer the Talarians to Captain Endar. Since the military took over hundreds of thousands more havedied. Thank you, Mister Data. Ah, that's the second of your criteria. Let's deal with thefirst, intelligence. Is Commander Data intelligent? We mean you no harm. We must warn you that your planet is aboutto experience massive seismic disruptions due to an approaching stellarcore fragment. No structure will be able to withstand them. It's good to see you. Do not provoke her You're sure you won't reconsider? On screen. Resistance is futile. Picard to Engineering. Chief Engineerreport to the Bridge. Let's go through all this again. You were sitting there. Therest of us were here. Describe the exact moment when we appeared tofreeze. Here we go. At the moment, it's you who are setting the tone. Thesophistication of this programming is remarkable. Yes, even though you're judge and prosecutor. Q I know of nothing out here that could possibly justify what youhave done. I'm in no mood for your foolishness, Q. Q Transmit the message, leave Farpoint Space Station immediately. That's your job, Commander La Forge. Determine some way to keepthe Enterprise up and running. Data, you join Commander Riker on theaway team. Find out what happened on that ship. Mister Data? Temarc! The river Temarc in winter. Anthwara, there's very little I can do. The decision about thisplanet was made at the very highest level of Starfleet. No. I am not dead. Because I refuse to believe that theafterlife is run by you. The universe is not so badly designed. Q You see? Are you saying you believe it to be hostile? I'm not forgetting that. That's the reason he's here and not inthe brig. I suppose you'll just have to go down there and find out. Computer, that is sufficient. There are a great deal of fluctuations. Proceed. Mister Worf, keep a close eye on Q's friends outthere. Even their deaths might have prevented this war. If theEnterprise-C returns to the battle and its mission is a success,history will be irrevocably changed. This time line will cease to existand a new future will have been created. I've considered thealternatives. I'll go with Guinan's recommendation. Dismissed. Picard to Transporter room. Lock into this signal. Stand by forsix to beam up. Wesley, Lieutenant. Location? How widespread is this movement? Hold this position. Long range scan. Your Honour, I appreciate your indulgence. Allow me to explain. A team from the Enterprise has taken control of this woman's ship nowin orbit around Ventax Two. Thank you for your help, Number One. Doesn't love always begin that way? With the illusion beingmore real than the woman? Advise him to set his coordinates for the Delta Quadrant. Hemay run into them in eighty years or so. Commander Riker. Let's keep in mind that that particular danger was invented byQ. Let's come to a stop. Reverse power. She gave me no choice. I should think the shifting passions of this beast would be farmore terrifying. You're saying they. It is a vessel of some sort. That is correct. See if we can determine their direction. Standard searchpattern. Can you access it? Of course you know that is out of the question. We should go now. Excellent. Our communicators may not be able to get a signalthrough this strong a magnetic field. I'm fashioning an arrow. If asearch party finds the wreckage, they'll know we've headed for thosemountains. Incidental? See if the corridor is empty. Sarek has built a personal relationship with them. They willaccept no one else. How can we confirm your diagnosis? Very well. No. If I understand correctly, a Starfleet officer, a respectedmember of my crew, could be accused of a capital crime. Your actions inthis matter will reflect on this ship and on the Federation. Therefore,it seems only appropriate that your captain should be at your sidewhile you make your challenge. I'm sure you would do no less for me. Do you have any evidence of that? Cancel red alert. Captain's log, stardate 47314.5. We have beencontinuing our research, while the Federation Council studies ourpreliminary reports on the subspace rift. It now appears certain thatwhat we've seen here will have repercussions for many years to come. We desire face-to-face negotiation to settle the crisis on TauCygna Five. Run a localised subspace scan to look for anything else. On my way. I don't understand. It was here in the other two time periods. Why isn't it here now? The other reason being? Perhaps this Morag was the one who was interested in obtainingthe encrypted messages. Mister Worf. Photon torpedoes. Maximum yield, full spread. Data, I need to know what's on the shuttle's logs. Well, I consider this time well spent. Enterprise to Commander Riker. You made it, Number One. Smooth ride? I cannot find any evidence of a Will Riker. Mister Data, your status? Not if you aren't guilty, Simon. Tam Elbrun warned Tin Man. The first thing it did was todestroy a space vessel. Could they be naturally occurring? And it couldn't have happened at a worse time. A few more daysof relatively simple negotiations, and the treaty will be signed. No! Do nothing he demands. It is my choice to respect the ancient rituals. Each of youwill have to prove your worthiness to lead the High Council. I hope so. What? Do I? You should never have interfered. The Aldeans are anxious to discuss compensation. Was he trying to contact her telepathically? Then they would follow the beam like a trail of breadcrumbs. Very well. That is ridiculous, Doctor. I have an away team down there, inless than friendly territory, and in addition I have an appointmentwith several Romulan battlecruisers. Number One, contact the Ferengi Government. Find out all youcan about Bok. He was wearing a DaiMon's uniform. If he's regained hisrank, I want to know why. Lay in an intercept course, full impulse. Lock phasers. I don't know how to communicate this, or even if it ispossible, but the question of justice has concerned me greatly oflately. And I say to any creature who may be listening, there can be nojustice so long as laws are absolute. Even life itself is an exercisein exceptions. Stop! We mean you no harm. We are prisoners, like yourself. Weare not the enemy. Open a channel. I gather you were unsuccessful. But shouldn't the safety overrides have prevented that? It may be dangerous to take the ship in. On my way, Number One. Data, the moment you decided to stopimitating other actors and create your own interpretation, you werealready one step closer to understanding humanity. Oh, I think we can resume the sequence. Counsellor Troi istaking care of the situation on deck seven. Then what does he want? Predators use vocalisations to frightenother predators and to mark territory, and to commence mating process. A mating process. Counsellor Troi was bitten by a Klingon but not in aplace that might be life-threatening. Nowhere near a major artery ororgan. Data, look at this. Look at this injury. This wound was neverintended to give her any kind of serious harm. Can you write it out? I am so sorry that your friends werekilled. I'm sorry, I don't know what you are trying to tell me. We haveto find some way to communicate with him. Data, he knows some kind ofgestural language. Find our which one and learn it. I remember a Starfleet admiral once saying the same thing aboutsome renegade Andorians in the Triangulum system. It turns out thatthey had dismantled their ship and hidden it. What? Maybe it's simpler than that. Maybe their relationship is morelike the sun and the moon. Red alert. I trust my crew, Ambassador. They will take noprovocative action unless I order them. We need a new captain and I've come to one inescapableconclusion What about Mister Data? There must be some connection betweenhis odd behaviour and these creatures. Is he infested as well? Make it so. Shut down life support to those decks. Well, before I begin swinging through the ship looking forbreakfast, we'd better find some answers. How do we reverse theprocess? Seven years! Mister Data, what is her heading? Damn it, who's out there? Very well. If anyone needs me, I'll be in my Ready Room. I will? That's true. I started off calling you Beverly, and ofcourse, naturally, you. I'm still not thinking straight. This way, gentlemen. Admiral, Orta's ships are old and obsolete. They don't evenhave warp capabilities. They couldn't have reached another star system,let alone attacked one. Into the anomaly, Chief. Lay in a course for the exact centreand transfer all available power to the shields. Let's head for the closer one. Computer, this is Captain Picard. Return all command functionsto the stations. Doctor Jo'Bril, can you hear me? Please respond. Increase speed to intercept the Romulan vessel. All right, Harry? Didn't you? Prepare to transport us to the same location Ensign Ro beamedto. Mister Worf, phasers. Perhaps I should contact the Enterprise, have them meet us atVulcan just in case these isolationists try to escape. Shields up. Red alert. Main Engineering. From the perspective of Lieutenant Yar using them in combat withLutan's wife. Ihat said that if we created the temple, then it would get herattention. It may be some time before she shows herself. I need to see him right now. Perhaps not. I was, I was thinking I, I might be imposing. I could veryeasily stay in the village. Initiate auto sequence. I want some explanations from Lutan. Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Fire at will. What about my crew? Q But they've not fired. Let's try them again. What woman? Q Yes. But not the second time. Now, you'll do me the courtesy ofjoining us at dinner. I have to disappoint an old friend. Isolate the bandwidth. Let the signal through the shields. You were married to my best friend. At first I thought it washarmless infatuation. Something hormonal rather than emotional. But you admire him? Yes, that's right. It's on deck seven. I left it in thecorridor. And then the power went out and I got lost Q. Q Who is this? To study you. To understand your ways. Discontinue, Mister LaForge. Proceed. Very well. Ensign, take us out of orbit. Set a course for thePhelan system, warp six. Destination? A mistake. Q Is this your Father? Any word from Starfleet Command, Data? Always alone? Have you any idea how this happened? It's been sent to Vulcan for identification. Starfleet haverequested that we lend a hand. It's that obvious? No, no, no, I'm just an amateur. But your choice in thatarpeggio was delightful. Not at all what one would expect. What are you recommending? He's going to lose. The Nausicaan is cheating. Q You're mistaken. I am ready and willing to discuss theestablishment of full diplomatic relations under the same terms asAmbassador T'Pel. I don't understand why it's bigger in the past. Mister Crusher? No. Captain Picard. I can not allow you toleave. Before we can go forward, the cycle must end. All right. Chief O'Brien, transport this group directly tocargo hold seven, and beam the remaining refugees from the planetdirectly to that hold. Full sensor sweep, Mister Data. Where are we? Hail the vessel. Thank you, sir. My first officer will be joining us shortly. No, I'm delighted to see you. Can I get you something to drink? Lieutenant, Are our problems likely to attain theseriousness of those on the Yamato? They'll know the truth, Admiral. Which is what everyone willknow very shortly. Carry out my orders. Are all the others dead? Did Masaka kill them? Your point is well taken, Counsellor. Number One, you're goingto have to go down there. I remember. I was so nervous I was afraid that I would dropher. Now look at the little lady. Picard to Commander Data. Please report to my Ready room. Yes, I do, Ambassador. But I also realise the potentialbenefits. No, that's quite true. We learn as much as possible about a planet before we makefirst contact. What about you? There is a good chance that our competition may be here beforeus. Battle stations, Mister Worf. Security to deck six, section twenty five. Then this endeavour dies here, in this room. It seems to work well for you. This ship has encountered several incidents which might suggesta potential alliance between those two powers. Yes. Of course. You've done well. Our options? Picard to Tam Elbrun. The important things never will be. Anyone can be trained inthe mechanics of piloting a starship. I'm sorry to hear that. Mister La Forge, your recommendations? Meribor? What can you do? I'm afraid that will take some time to explain. Captain's log, stardate 47618.4. Commander La Forgehas managed to disable the alien transformationprogramme. Starfleet hasdispatched an archaeological team to study the archive further. I don't even know what it means. The Horga'hn is for a friend. And it was believed that the last Tarellian vessel wasdestroyed eight years ago by the Alcyones. Picard to Enterprise. Yes, it's quite an undertaking you're proposing, isn't it? No! Thank you. Captain's log, Stardate 43610.4. After completing adelivery of dicosilium to the Tanuga Four research station, our awayteam has received an update from Doctor Nel Apgar on his efforts tocreate Krieger Waves, a potentially valuable new power source. Mister Data? The Proconsul says that he is prepared toendorse peace talks. Why don't we, Admiral? In all these discussions, no one hasever mentioned her wishes. She's a free, sentient being. What are yourwishes, Lal? If we can find away of getting him to ourSickbay by fixing our computer Or trusted. Number One? Lieutenant, On screen, Lieutenant. Your moon has begun moving toward its perigee. We're preparedto make our attempt. We must consider all options, Doctor, and not let our personalfeelings impede our judgment. Shields and deflectors up. Can you amplify the pheromones? They need to be much morepowerful than Deanna's actual scent. Very good. Number One? Eline. No, please. Wait. I have brought you this information because Ithink you are someone who will listen to a reasonable proposition. Someone whose mind is open to compromise. Increase speed to the rendezvous coordinates. No, he's certainly not what I would expect. Without cause orreason, he and his little band of outlaws has attacked my ship! This is a jigsaw puzzle whose pieces are scattered across thegalaxy. Doesn't it make it natural to assume that the originaldesigners of the puzzle should want us to find it? Why else would theyhave put the pieces in our DNA? And in turn, doesn't suggest they wouldtry to make it easy for us to find those pieces, that there might besome pattern to their distribution? Then it remains to see if he has the support of the law. I have a good idea. We're ready to transport down to thesurface. And the bad news? Perhaps, but if this is an accurate representation, it couldexplain what happened in that system. Well, there's nothing unusual about that. On screen. Stand by to fire torpedoes on my command. I am Captain Picard, commanding the Enterprise. Go to Yellow Alert. Full stop. Hold this position again. Hello, Marcus. I'm delighted that you're feeling better, Captain. The Admiraland I were worried about you. School project? Just how far have these things evolved? What is it? You may test that assumption at your convenience. I know that if Kosinski can get us home, Starfleet can use histechnique to bring back a pure science vessel to do even more. NumberOne, tell Kosinski prepare to get us out of here. Yes. This is very wrong. Neither of you should be reacting inthis way. Computer, locate Commander Data for me. Come. So it would seem. Come. Something to be carefully avoided. I agree. Mister Worf, hailing frequency. Would you join me on the bridge, please. Pursuant to paragraph one thousand two hundred and ninety, Ihereby formally request third party arbitration of our dispute. Welcome aboard, Admiral. This is my Executive Officer,Commander William Riker. Picard to Chief O'Brien. Number One. What did they want? I didn't say anything about being thirsty. The play? A Midsummer Night's Dream. We have performed inLondon, Paris, Milan. Milan. To sold out houses. I assure you, you willhave the rent, in full, with a bonus. Come. Analysis. Counsellor, what is it you say? Take a deep breath. Yes. When can that be arranged? Ensign, answer the First Officer's question. Helm, take us in as close as possible to the freighter's orbit. There she is. We should be seeing stars by now. Data, howfar have we come? Status, Data. Rene already told me. Where is he? I don't think we're interested. 1 And the crew? Helm, set course for the Topin system. Mister Data, will yousignal the science ship that we're on our way. Earth was once a violent planet, too. At times, the chaosthreatened the very fabric of life, but, like you, we evolved. We foundto find better ways to handle our conflicts. But I think no one candeny that the seed of violence remains within each of us. We mustrecognise that, because that violence is capable of consuming each ofus. As it consumed your son. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. He also believes that you're a less than perfect Starfleetofficer. Will, I want you to play into that role. Baran and I, well, hedoesn't care very much for me, but he has to tolerate me because heneeds my help with these artefacts. But if you and I become enemies,then there's a better chance of you and he becoming friends. Commander, that was a remarkable performance. And, Mister La Forge Holodeck off. Well, you have taken on quite a responsibility, Data. On screen. In truth, I simply do not have authority in this matter. I'mnot your judge, nor is it my duty to arbitrate. But you are in mycustody, and that creates the dilemma. Look, if we try to deceive one other, then we shall getnowhere. I think we all know about Professor Galen's research, andabout the computer programme composed of fragments. I'll take yoursilence as confirmation. Now, it stands to reason that none of us hasthe DNA fragments necessary to complete the programme. You were thefirst to arrive in this system. Do you have an organic sample from theplanet below? Enlarge. What is their course? Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. And here, here, where the energy is lowest? Mister Data, are you all right? Engineering! Come. I find it stimulating. Also, it puts things in perspective. Inour arrogance we feel we are so advanced, and yet we cannot unravel asimple knot tied by a part-time French mathematician working alone,without a computer. Let me try to understand. You're saying that Commander Data issuffering from a profound loss of confidence, and that you believe onlyI can restore the balance? They're right, Baran, and you know it. I say kill him. Now. Bring us about, Ensign. Maximum shields. Oh, er, yes. It's, er, it's for the children. I'm, er, ha, ha,I'm a role model. Picard to Enterprise. Two to beam up. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. I cannot ignore the requests of people, humans, who ask fortransport away from here. What do you think, Counsellor? Professor, I wonder why you're in so much of a hurry. Is thiswoman involved with you in some illegal venture? Engineering. How true. Wait! Hold your fire. Yes, Mister La Forge. Keep trying. While he's doing that, Number One, I want you andLa Forge to try and find some way of getting through one of thoseholes, because one way or the other we have got to get an away team onthe planet, locate the power source for the shield and neutralise it. No. And Manheim's experiments with gravity and time wererudimentary, and uncontrollable. Take care, Uncle. Take us to within fifteen kilometres of the asteroid and holdthat position. Our medical doctor is concerned that you didn't go through theregular transporting procedure. Data? The fight at Maxia. I destroyed an entire vessel. An entirecrew. This is not our planet, sir, but I will present your needs tothose who do govern this world. It seems we are becoming detectives, Number One. A wormhole? And something else that's circling your world. It's veryimportant to us, and perhaps to you, to know what it is. Q! Q With fist closed. An army with fist open to lure the enemy. With fist closed to attack? That's how you communicate, isn't it? Byciting example. By metaphor. Uzani's army with fist open. Qu'vath guy'cha b'aka. Data, I want a tactical projection of possible future Romulandeployments along the Neutral Zone. Access all Federation records onthe subject and report to my Ready Room. Yes, Mister Data? On screen. Magnify. They return home, leaving theassistant manager in charge. We didn't hear you. We come in peace. Three weeks. Starfleet is profuse in their apologies, but itwill still be three weeks until the arrival of a colony transport shipequipped with dedicated personnel shuttles. Force field down. And although Lore would still be feeding him negative emotions,at least Data might listen to us. Miranda was trained as a botanist. She always used to talkabout running a farm one day. Maybe we should concentrate on theagricultural areas. It's not as simple as that. He is surrounded by Mintakans. Ifhe dematerialises before their eyes, the impact That'll be all, gentlemen. Take it back, Number One, and this timenothing is going to lure us away. They won't come to the ship? Yes, Counsellor. Please, come in, sit down. Take us out of warp, Ensign. Go to three quarters impulse. RO Well, under the circumstances, I think it would be prudent if Iwere to make myself less available for the duration of this journey. Yes. Indeed. Human or not, I want no part of you. We will deposityou at the first starbase. Let them deal with you. Q He's a trader. He doesn't attract customers by being hard tofind. While on board, you are welcome to supervise the return of yourcrew, but I cannot allow Jeremiah Rossa to be returned to your custody. His true family are waiting for him on Earth. He loves you very much. It's an old navy phrase, meaning everything in perfect order. How long until we reach transporter range? Yes, this is not a rock on the trail which once seen can easilybe avoided. This is much more complex. It's the least I can do I wish I knew. Q first became interested in him at Farpoint. Ihave no idea what it means. Meanwhile, we must proceed with our rescuemission. Q That's his job. It was self-defence. He fired on my ship. Picard to perimeter teams. However intriguing that may be, we are now in the midst of anurgent journey. Once that is completed, then, perhaps Q Will your investigation affect our available power during themission? It's not her fault. These past few years have been verydifficult for her. What about Geordi and Troi? Life signs? And what has the scientist been up to today? What were you doing in the caves, Jason? Are you aseismologist? All right, that's enough, Ensign. Come to full stop and holdthese coordinates. WESLEY Captain, there will be a short delay. Korris has escaped. This has been a strain on our friendship. Go ahead. Do I hear anger in your voice? Well, this may prove to be a wild goose chase,but I don't see that we have any other choice, do you? From South America. This is Madeline, my secretary, and I wantyou to meet Rex. You know, I don't think I ever heard your last name? I understand your sacrifice, Captain. Unfortunately, if ourfriend out there has its way, no one will ever know what you tried todo. We don't have time to argue. You must go now. Thank you. Data? On what grounds? Prepare for emergency transport. Use whatever resources are necessary. It appears we may haveencountered a new life form. I want to know everything about it asquickly as possible. Commander Data, supervise. Acknowledged. How's that Cardassian virus, Admiral? The Astrophysics Centre on Icor Nine is holding a symposium onrogue star clusters. I had given serious thought to attending. No one is more aware of the danger than I am. But I am alsobound by my oath and my conscience to uphold certain principles. And Iwill not sacrifice them in order to But the sensors show nothing out there, right? Suggestions? How will you keep us a secret when so many have seen and heardso much? Data, let him go. Were the solar radiation levels high enough to kill him? Let her go. A life form of unknown origin and intent is breeding right nowinside Counsellor Troi. Our purpose here is to determine what is to bedone about this very unusual situation. Discussion. Trust requires time and experience. Well, if you'll excuse me. Hey, that's my hobby. Find your own. Nothing. Well, almost nothing in my position of ship's Captain. Wait. Oh, Data. Your whisper from the dark has now become aplea. We cannot turn our backs. Captain's log, stardate 42741.3. We are enteringinto orbit of Drema Four, the planet from which Data received thedistress signal. Sensors indicate that the volcanic activity isincreasing. It seems an awful lot of effort for something as simple as aheadache. What brings you here, Q? Have you been banished by theContinuum once again? Q And that asteroid came from the Pelloris Field. If the rest ofthat field is rich in nitrium, it would make a natural feeding ground. The ultimate boundary. So, Madeline, I'll see you later. Activateprogramme. Data, where else on this planet can I find someone she cannotintimidate? Any readings of matter there? I'll inform you of my decision shortly. You can see your quarters now, if you like. Will you show theMillers to their accommodations, please, and I shall join you later. Not perfect in what way? What's the nature of the emergency? Energise. I will. I put a little something into your bag while you werepacking. I know you'd probably have preferreda bottle of Saurian brandy, but that's all I could come up with. No. Of course, I'm familiar with the blueprints andspecifications, but this will be my first time aboard. Your service honours us. This is my first officer, CommanderWilliam Riker. What happened on Rana Four? The truth this time. All of it. The beast? There was a creature at Tanagra? Darmok and Jalad,the beast of Tanagra. They arrived separately. They struggled togetheragainst a common foe, the beast at Tanagra. Darmok and Jalad atTanagra. Seriously, how do you plan to accelerate the buildup on theunderside of the mantle without increasing the stress on the tectonicplates? Wishing for a thing does not make it so. Very well. Mister Crusher, all stop. Let's talk about that later, shall we? Mister Worf, prepare to transport these prisoners back down tothe moon's surface. You never told me about this. I am truly grateful, Mrs. Troi, that you risked your life tosave my people. I'll have you home within a few hours. Well, the person in question is in his quarters at the moment. What's happened to her? Oh, thank you. In what way? I was almost hoping that you'd find a problem. This is quite unnecessary, Doctor. I'm fine. What range would that kind of transporter have? Something of a tradition, Guinan. The Captain touring the shipbefore a battle. He's the groundskeeper. One of the wisest men I ever knew. Oh,I envy you, Wesley Crusher. You're just at the beginning of theadventure. Go on. Get the water. Stay alive. They'll find you. You do this of your own accord? Except it's illegal. It's in violation of an agreement that theFederation signed in good faith. Yes? Acknowledged. Ensign Gates, set course for Starbase twonineteen, warp six. Engage. That must be it. Perhaps you can help me. Well, hardly possible, Number One. Lay in a course to thesource of the signal. How many more? Why? Why was it dangerous? What is happening to you? Escort Chancellor Durken to the transporter room, Lieutenant. And assign quarters to Minister Yale. She will be remaining on board. Not surprising. Altarian viruses can be a nastybusiness. Go ahead. Energise. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. What could motivate someone like your father to commit such anact? Have you discussed this with your mother? I'll take your word for it. Dear God. Let's salvage what we can. The first thing we'll needis shelter from the sun. In this heat, the shuttle will act like anoven. Forgive the intrusion, Captain, but I need some answers. All decks? Everything? The entire ship? It's not over yet, Wesley. But the doors will open automatically when the launch begins. And I will override. More like a late twenty-second century interplanetary journey. I admit I must have mistaken their subspaceantenna for a weapons cluster. Unfortunately, I fired our main phasersand our direct hit destroyed the unknown vessel. Were you expecting the Ferengi, Premier? If you are going to refuse his offer, you must not allowyourself to use this power again. It's too great a temptation for us atour present stage of development. Asylum? If that were true, what could three indicate? Oh, really? On my way. How the hell do you know that, boy? Commander, there'll be a memorial service at twenty threehundred hours this evening. Mister Data is making arrangements. Drop to impulse. Take us in, Ensign. Deanna, I've been fortunate to have access to your Betazoidabilities. Most starship captains have to be content with a humancounsellor. Empathic awareness is not a requirement of your position. Commander Riker, bring Doctor Stubbs to the Bridge. I'm sorry if you're upset. Keep alert. They brought a lot of technology. Where is it? That's what I told him. But we have to be careful. Obviouslyit's easy for people to misunderstand. Can you find them? Good. Ensign, set course for the Guernica system. They're both symbols of consumption. Mouth, food. Mister Data,what kind of cake is this? I understand. What is our assignment? I know it's hard to accept, but even the best Data. On screen. Satisfactory? But how could that be? We both saw the woman. Good. Now look down the sides of the lift. Can you see two bigclamps? Admiral Satie, this is Commander Data,Commander La Forge. The Enterprise just jumped through a wormhole. You see, it's all slipping away so fast. It's like waking upfrom a nightmare. It was years ago. It was before I took command of theEnterprise. I was talking to someone, I can't remember who. And then itall changed. I was no longer in the past. I was now an old man in thefuture, and I was outside and I was doing something. I can't rememberwhat it was. I'm sorry, it's all gone. I just can't remember. What does that mean? Angel One's strategic importance in this quadrant may becomevital. Starfleet's hope is that one day this world may become part ofthe Federation. Doctor, did you hear what I said? All the twenty six men andwomen aboard that ship were dead. Duras died in disgrace. By Klingon tradition, his family shouldshare that disgrace. Once the shuttle is safely past the patrol, Joret will put youinto an escape pod and return you back across the border. Is there any treatment you can give him? It's a tracking device of some kind. Admiral, have a seat. You see, I'm just not convinced that youare telling the truth. Make it so. This is my place. How soon can your ship be ready? Were you able to salvage anything else from the escape pod? We are repairing one of our subspace telescopes. I understand what you've done here, Q, but I think the lessoncould have been learned without the loss of eighteen members of my crew. Q Begin the procedure, Mister La Forge. Eline. Until now. I'm sorry, I can't discuss it. What would you have me tell them? It was a team effort, Admiral. Ensign Ro was invaluable. Picard to Commander Data. Enterprise, hard starboard! Well, we'll can talk about it later. For now, I think we shouldget off this planet. Am I in assuming the damage the shuttle is not asbad as it seems? Thank you both. We don't know. We were brought here the same way you were. Ourcaptors refuse to show themselves. Why didn't you tell us this? Why the deception? The violence? On screen. Will you leave me alone? Damn it, I'm not stupid. Will, thetachyon pulses, they were used in the same spot in three different timeperiods. Don't you see? When the tachyon pulse used. I mean, I meanwhen the Pasteur used the tachyon pulse, then, then, we I meaneverything started, Will. We set everything in motion. It's like thechicken and the egg, Will, the chicken and the egg! We think it startedin the past but it didn't. It started right here, in the future. That'swhy it's getting larger in the past. Well, I trust you will be comfortable here. If you will excuseme. But you can't be certain of that. You're betting your life on ahypothesis. There must be a lava flow or a underground hot spring somewherenear here. Unacceptable! Red Alert. All hands stand to battle stations. I don't think we have a choice. We must destroy that archive. Mister Worf? No time. No time to argue. Counsellor, this is not simply a case of me taking theEnterprise and its crew on some wild goose chase to purge myself ofguilt and remorse. I will not let Galen's death to be in vain. Now, ifthat means inconveniencing a few squabbling delegates for a few days,then so be it. I will take the full responsibility. Go ahead. I see. Oh, perhaps I could reconfigure these isolinear chips. The lights stay on. I learned it on a planet called Kataan. Admiral Satie. Welcome aboard the Enterprise. How many generations are we dealing with here? The question is, what sort of jaded game ishe up to this time? Bok! Energy reading? What kind? Forgive me if I don't act surprised. What happened back there, Lieutenant? Or interfere in any way until I arrive. Picard out. Number One, have Security moving that way but tell them tokeep their distance. You have the Bridge. Counsellor. Your point, Admiral? Picard to Enterprise. Forget your previous error, Mister Worf. There is no way youcould have prevented it. The women. Welcome to the Bridge, Mister La Forge. Do it. You are six years old. Weak and helpless. You cannothurt me. Mister Worf, get him out of here. Beverly. I'm afraid there will be no autopsy. The family hasalready been contacted. They insist that the body must not be toucheduntil they perform the Ferengi death ritual. I'm not sure that's true. That will take hours. Yes, yes, I know that. Galen to Bridge. Alter course for Vulcan. That will buy us time. I've asked Doctor Crusher to be involvedin the negotiations as your representative. Jacket. Energise. Hopefully he'll tell us, Number One. And the inverted T means to hold the Z. Vash. How did you get in here? Before you wake them up, I want to have Security here. Lieutenant Worf, report to Sickbay. I will not interfere with Homn's duties this time. That would be delightful. Number One, assemble the away team. That area was colonized fairly recently, as I recall. Very well. Let's try it. Mister La Forge, I want you to monitorthe situation very carefully, and keep an open comm. link with theHolodeck so as to be apprised of any problems. Everyone stand back. Mister Worf, send a message to Admiral Haden at Starfleet. Inform him of our projected time of arrival. If you launch a full-scale attack now, then the Duras fleetwill call for supplies. Lursa and B'Etor will call for help. TheRomulans will try to run the blockade, and we'll be ready for them. I'm on my way. I believe you're in my chair. Captain's log, stardate Later, Data. Number One. No, I don't. It just saddens me to see you burdened with theknowledge things you can't change. So what the hell is going on here? Go ahead, Mister La Forge. Will you see the Counsellor to her quarters? And now, attempt to concentrate completelyon your duty of the moment. Or on the Traveller, on hiswell being. What's wrong? Data, wait. Let us talk to you. Mister Data? Ambassador, we can stall the representatives. Time to impact. Data, what could have caused this collision of time andanti-time? Mister La Forge! Mister La Forge, are you all right? No. No. No. I think I'll get back to bed. I could use somesleep. Captain's log, supplemental. Starfleet Commandreports no unusual activity along the Neutral Zone, and there is nosign of a temporal anomaly. It would appear that I am the only memberof the crew to retain any knowledge of the events I experienced. Satok has assured me that all three pieces will be destroyed. Commander. It's all right, it's al right. I'm not going to hurt you. How fast is the wave travelling now? Then he should be behaving very much better, don't you think? AStarfleet Captain. Lieutenant Worf, will you handle this at security station, decknine. Data, what do you read? Jeremy, I have some bad news. There hasbeen an accident. Your mother has died. It's like pacing up and down on the same piece of carpet. Eventually you wear it out. Mister Worf, I want you to station yourself outside herquarters. Can you read it? Unless it's followed by three wavy lines, in which case the Zbecomes a B. Don't you see, Riker? He's nothing but a flim-flam man! He'sbeen that ever since we first met him at Farpoint. Situation report, Number One. I've managed to avoid it for the past six years, but now itwould seem my luck has run out. I can't think of anything more tedious. Fifty Admirals shaking hands, making dull conversation, uninterestingfood, boring speeches. Mister Worf, what is going on? About Spock. Yes, sir. What? Hey, Beverly? Why do you use other lifeforms for recreation? Q Velara Three base, this is the Enterprise. Come in please. Over. Is there no hope for Brevelle or Mendez? Did you learn that from Commander Data as well? I shall have tohave a talk with him. Yes. Would you put it back where you got it. Oh no, Number One. I'm sure most will be much more interesting. Let's see what's out there. Engage. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Keep me apprised, Doctor. Can it be possible they know what they're doing? Well, I want an explanationPICARD Is that so? Then we can't delay any longer. Ready the tractor beam,Lieutenant Yar. Target the ship. Activate on my command. Starfleet Intelligence believes that the Cardassians aredeveloping a new delivery system, one that would protect them fromaccidental exposure to the toxin. They believe that the Cardassians aretesting a way of launching dormant metagenic material on a subspacecarrier wave. The only benefit to the Klingon Empire would be our gratitude. Bridge to Transporter room. Energise. Now everyone hold their position. No matter what. Engage. I'm on my way. Change them? You mean change the past? Q, even if you have beenable to bring me back in time somehow, surely you must realise that anyalteration in this timeline will have a profound impact on the future. Q That is not the whole meaning, but it is part of it. Energise. Captain's log, stardate 41464.8. I have declared anindefinite quarantine for Velara Three, and we are now returning toStarbase with the three surviving terraformers. Perhaps the lesson wehave learned from this near tragedy will prevent it from happeningelsewhere. <Backto the episode listingStar Trek ® and relatedmarks are trademarks of Studios Inc. Copyright © 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are foreducational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrightsproperty of their respective holders. Open frequencies. Well done, Ensign. Mister Worf, launch the probe. As of now, we don't have sufficient evidence one way or theother. I want you to examine her shuttle. You might find somethingthere which will shed some light on her story. This is the right time, the right place. He should be here now. Attention all decks. This is to inform you that with yoursupport the Traveller has returned us to our galaxy. However, he hasnow left us. Wherever he has gone, we wish him well. Have the boy sentto the Bridge, Number One. Thank you. Very well. But let us put this to rest as quickly as possible. Why? RO Q! Q We are not familiar with the terms of your claim on thissector. We're here engaged in scientific research. Do you wish toparticipate? What is it, Mister Data? That can't be helped. Ensign, lay in a course. Warp factoreight. On viewscreen. I'm Captain Picard of the Enterprise. If the cause of the difficulties is in the novel, we may findthe solution within its pages. Ah. 'It was a dark andstormy night'. It's not a promising beginning. The power cell is ready. We should take itover to the shuttle. I was right. What are you talking about? No. Well, right now we have more immediate concerns. Does your mapshow us a way out of here? You understand your orders? Premier Bhavani has no objection. Report? We are all sworn not to interfere with other lives in thegalaxy. If I save this boy, I break that law. Welcome back, Mister La Forge. Mister La Forge, get us out of here. Data and the alien are on their way down. What would beinvolved in removing all memory of her communication with DataPICARD And then watch what happens. Captain's log, supplemental. I have becomeconvinced that we are somehow involved in a conspiracy. I am hopefulthe purpose behind it will be revealed in the next few hours. Take us out of orbit, Mister La Forge. Chorgan, if I had wanted you destroyed, you would not betalking to me now. Obviously, I wanted something else. That sounds delightful. Picard to Enterprise. Three to beam up. It's from an unidentified vessel that's entered into orbit withus here. Not to my knowledge. I can see why Spock would cultivate a relationship with him. Where would we find him other than on the floor of the Romulan Senate? Ensign Ro, set a course to intercept the Cardassians. MisterWorf, open a channel to the Bajoran vessel. 